13024 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
1Unless otherwise noted, when we refer to the
Advisers Act, or any section of the Advisers Act,
we are referring to 15 U.S.C. 80b, at which the
Advisers Act is codified. When we refer to rules
under the Advisers Act, or any section of those
rules, we are referring to title 17, part 275 of the
Code of Federal Regulations [17 CFR part 275], in
which these rules are published.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 275 and 279
[Release No. IA–5653; File No. S7–21–19]
RIN 3235–AM08
Investment Adviser Marketing
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange
Commission.
ACTION: Final rule.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange
Commission (the ‘‘Commission’’ or the
‘‘SEC’’) is adopting amendments under
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(the ‘‘Advisers Act’’ or the ‘‘Act’’) to
update rules that govern investment
adviser marketing. The amendments
will create a merged rule that will
replace both the current advertising and
cash solicitation rules. These
amendments reflect market
developments and regulatory changes
since the advertising rule’s adoption in
1961 and the cash solicitation rule’s
adoption in 1979. The Commission is
also adopting amendments to Form
ADV to provide the Commission with
additional information about advisers’
marketing practices. Finally, the
Commission is adopting amendments to
the books and records rule under the
Advisers Act.
DATES:
Effective date: This rule is effective
May 4, 2021.
Compliance dates: The applicable
compliance dates are discussed in
section II.K.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Juliet Han, Emily Rowland, Aaron Russ,
or Christine Schleppegrell, Senior
Counsels; Thoreau Bartmann or Melissa
Roverts Harke, Senior Special Counsels;
or Melissa Gainor, Assistant Director, at
(202) 551–6787 or IM-Rules@sec.gov,
Investment Adviser Regulation Office,
Division of Investment Management,
Securities and Exchange Commission,
100 F Street NE, Washington, DC
20549–8549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The
Commission is adopting amendments to
17 CFR 275.206(4)–1 (rule 206(4)–1) and
17 CFR 275.204–2 (rule 204–2) under
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 [15
U.S.C. 80b–1 et seq.],1 and amendments
to 17 CFR 279.1 (Form ADV) under the
Advisers Act. The Commission is
rescinding 17 CFR 275.206(4)–3 (rule
206(4)–3) under the Advisers Act.
Table of Contents
I. Introduction
Advertising and Solicitation Rules and
Proposed Amendments
Merged Marketing Rule
II. Discussion
A. Scope of the Rule: Definition of
‘‘Advertisement’’
1. Overview
2. Definition of Advertisement:
Communications Other Than
Compensated Testimonials and
Endorsements
3. Definition of Advertisement:
Compensated Testimonials and
Endorsements, Including Solicitations
4. Investors in Private Funds
B. General Prohibitions
1. Untrue Statements and Omissions
2. Unsubstantiated Material Statements of
Fact
3. Untrue or Misleading Implications or
Inferences
4. Failure To Provide Fair and Balanced
Treatment of Material Risks or Material
Limitations
5. Anti-Cherry Picking Provisions:
References to Specific Investment
Advice and Presentation of Performance
Results
6. Otherwise Materially Misleading
C. Conditions Applicable to Testimonials
and Endorsements, Including
Solicitations
1. Overview
2. Required Disclosures
3. Adviser Oversight and Compliance
4. Disqualification for Persons Who Have
Engaged in Misconduct
5. Exemptions
D. Third-Party Ratings
E. Performance Advertising
1. Net Performance Requirement;
Elimination of Proposed Schedule of
Fees Requirement
2. Prescribed Time Periods
3. Statements About Commission Approval
4. Related Performance
5. Extracted Performance
6. Hypothetical Performance
F. Portability of Performance, Testimonials,
Endorsements, Third-Party Ratings, and
Specific Investment Advice
G. Review and Approval of Advertisements
H. Amendments to Form ADV
I. Recordkeeping
J. Existing Staff No-Action Letters
K. Transition Period and Compliance Date
L. Other Matters
III. Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
B. Broad Economic Considerations
C. Baseline
1. Market for Investment Advisers for the
Advertising Rule
2. Market for Solicitation Activity
3. RIA Clients
D. Costs and Benefits of the Final Rule and
Form Amendments
1. Quantitative Estimates of Costs and
Benefits
2. Definition of Advertisement
3. General Prohibitions
4. Conditions Applicable to Testimonials
and Endorsements, Including
Solicitations
5. Third-Party Ratings
6. Performance Advertising
7. Amendments to Form ADV
8. Recordkeeping
E. Efficiency, Competition, Capital
Formation
1. Efficiency
2. Competition
3. Capital Formation
F. Reasonable Alternatives
1. Reduce or Eliminate Specific Limitations
on Investment Adviser Advertisements
2. Bifurcate Some Requirements
3. Hypothetical Performance Alternatives
4. Alternatives to the Combined Marketing
Rule
5. Alternatives to Disqualification
Provisions
IV. Paperwork Reduction Act Analysis
A. Introduction
B. Rule 206(4)–1
1. General Prohibitions
2. Testimonials and Endorsements in
Advertisements
3. Third-Party Ratings in Advertisements
4. Performance Advertising
5. Total Hour Burden Associated With Rule
206(4)–1
C. Rule 206(4)–3
D. Rule 204–2
E. Form ADV
V. Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis
A. Reason for and Objectives of the Final
Amendments
1. Final Rule 206(4)–1
2. Final Rule 204–2
3. Final Amendments to Form ADV
B. Significant Issues Raised by Public
Comments
C. Legal Basis
D. Small Entities Subject to the Rule and
Rule Amendments
1. Small Entities Subject to Amendments to
Marketing Rule
2. Small Entities Subject to Amendments to
the Books and Records Rule 204–2
3. Small Entities Subject to Amendments to
Form ADV
E. Projected Reporting, Recordkeeping and
Other Compliance Requirements
1. Final Rule 206(4)–1
2. Final Amendments to Rule 204–2
3. Final Amendments to Form ADV
F. Duplicative, Overlapping, or Conflicting
Federal Rules
1. Final Rule 206(4)–1
2. Final Amendments to Form ADV
G. Significant Alternatives
1. Final Rule 206(4)–1
Statutory Authority
Appendix A: Changes to Form ADV
Appendix B: Form ADV Glossary of Terms
I. Introduction
We are adopting an amended rule,
rule 206(4)–1, under the Advisers Act,
which addresses advisers marketing
their services to clients and investors
(the ‘‘marketing rule’’). The marketing
rule amends existing rule 206(4)–1 (the
‘‘advertising rule’’), which we adopted
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations 13025
2Advertisements by Investment Advisers, Release
No. IA–121 (Nov. 1, 1961) [26 FR 10548 (Nov. 9,
1961)] (‘‘Advertising Rule Adopting Release’’).
3See Requirements Governing Payments of Cash
Referral Fees by Investment Advisers, Release No.
688 (July 12, 1979) [44 FR 42126 (Jul 18, 1979)]
(‘‘1979 Adopting Release’’).
4The advertising rule has been amended once,
when the Commission revised the introductory text
of paragraph (a) as part of a broader amendment of
several rules under the Advisers Act to reflect
changes made by the National Securities Market
Improvement Act of 1996. Rules Implementing
Amendments to the Investment Advisers Act of
1940, Release No. IA–1633 (May 15, 1997) [62 FR
28112, 28135 (May 22, 1997)] (‘‘Release 1633’’). We
have not amended the solicitation rule since
adoption.
5The final rule covers marketing activities by
investment advisers to clients and prospective
clients as well as investors and prospective
investors in private funds that those advisers
manage. See 15 U.S.C. 80b–2(a)(29) (defining a
‘‘private fund’’ as ‘‘an issuer that would be an
investment company, as defined in section 3 of the
Investment Company Act of 1940, but for section
3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act’’). Unless we specify
otherwise, for purposes of this release, we refer to
any of these persons generally as ‘‘investors,’’ and
we refer specifically to investors in private funds
managed by those advisers as ‘‘private fund
investors.’’
6While we traditionally referred to those who
engaged in compensated solicitation activity under
the current solicitation rule as ‘‘solicitors,’’ we use
the term ‘‘promoter’’ in this release to refer to a
person providing a testimonial or endorsement,
whether compensated or uncompensated. We also
use the term ‘‘provider’’ at times when discussing
a person providing an uncompensated testimonial
or endorsement.
7See Investment Adviser Advertisements;
Compensation for Solicitations, Release No. IA–
5407 (Nov. 4, 2019) [84 FR 67518 (Dec. 10, 2019)]
(‘‘2019 Proposing Release’’).
in 1961 to target advertising practices
that the Commission believed were
likely to be misleading.2 The rule also
replaces rule 206(4)–3 (the ‘‘solicitation
rule’’), which we adopted in 1979 to
help ensure clients are aware that paid
solicitors who refer them to advisers
have a conflict of interest.3 We have not
substantively updated either rule since
adoption.4 In the decades since the
adoption of both rules, however,
advertising and referral practices have
evolved. Simultaneously, the
technology used for communications
has advanced, the expectations of
investors shopping for advisory services
have changed, and the profiles of the
investment advisory industry have
diversified.
Our marketing rule recognizes these
changes and our experience
administering the advertising and
solicitation rules. Accordingly, the rule
contains principles-based provisions
designed to accommodate the continual
evolution and interplay of technology
and advice. The rule also contains
tailored restrictions and requirements
for certain types of advertisements, such
as performance advertising, testimonials
and endorsements, and third-party
ratings. Compensated testimonials and
endorsements, which include
traditional referral and solicitation
activity, will be subject to
disqualification provisions. We believe
the final marketing rule will allow
advisers to provide existing and
prospective investors with useful
information as they choose among
investment advisers and advisory
services, subject to conditions that are
reasonably designed to prevent fraud.
Finally, we are adopting related
amendments to Form ADV that are
designed to provide the Commission
with additional information about
advisers’ marketing practices, and
related amendments to the Advisers Act
books and records rule, rule 204–2.
Advertising and Solicitation Rules and
Proposed Amendments
Advertisements can provide existing
and prospective investors with useful
information as they contemplate
whether to utilize and pay for
investment advisory services, whether
to approach particular investment
advisers, and how to choose among
their available options. At the same
time, advertisements present risks of
misleading investors because an
investment adviser’s interest in
attracting investors may conflict with
the investors’ interests, and the adviser
is in control of the design, content,
format, media, timing, and placement of
its advertisements. As a consequence,
advertisements may mislead existing
and prospective investors about the
advisory services they will receive,
including indirectly through the
services provided to private funds.5 The
advertising rule was designed to address
the potential harm to investors from
misleading advertisements.
Advisers also attract investors by
compensating individuals or firms to
solicit new investors. Some investment
advisers directly employ individuals to
solicit new investors on their behalf,
and some investment advisers arrange
for related entities or third parties, such
as broker-dealers, to solicit new
investors. The person or entity
compensated has a financial incentive
to recommend the adviser to the
investor.6 Without appropriate
disclosure, this compensation creates a
risk that an investor would mistakenly
view the recommendation as being an
unbiased opinion about the adviser’s
ability to manage the investor’s assets
and would rely on that recommendation
more than the investor would if the
investor knew of the incentive. The
solicitation rule was designed to help
expose to clients the conflicts of interest
posed by cash compensation.
The concerns that motivated the
Commission to adopt the advertising
and solicitation rules still exist today,
but investment adviser marketing has
evolved with advances in technology. In
the decades since the adoption of both
the advertising and solicitation rules,
the use of the internet, mobile
applications, and social media has
become an integral part of business
communications. Consumers today
often rely on these forms of
communication to obtain information,
including reviews and referrals, when
considering buying goods and services.
Advisers and third parties also rely on
these same types of outlets to attract and
refer potential customers.
The nature and profiles of the
investment advisory industry and
investors seeking those advisory
services have also changed since the
Commission adopted the advertising
and solicitation rules. Some investors
today rely on digital investment
advisory programs, sometimes referred
to as ‘‘robo-advisers,’’ for investment
advice, which is provided exclusively
through electronic platforms using
algorithmic-based programs. In
addition, passage of the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (‘‘Dodd-Frank Act’’)
required many investment advisers to
private funds that were previously
exempt from registration to register with
the Commission and become subject to
additional provisions of the Advisers
Act and the rules thereunder. Private
funds and their advisers often hire
promoters to obtain investors in the
funds. Referral practices also have
expanded to include, for example,
various types of compensation,
including non-cash compensation, in
referral arrangements.
In light of these developments, we
proposed amendments to the
advertising rule to: (i) Modify the
definition of ‘‘advertisement’’ to be
more ‘‘evergreen’’ in light of ever
changing technology; (ii) replace four
per se prohibitions with general
prohibitions of certain advertising
practices applicable to all
advertisements; (iii) provide certain
restrictions and conditions on
testimonials, endorsements, and third
party ratings; and (iv) include tailored
requirements for the presentation of
performance results, based on an
advertisement’s intended audience.7
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13026 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
8The comment letters on the 2019 Proposing
Release (File No. S7–21–19) are available at https://
www.sec.gov/comments/s7-21-19/s72119.htm.
9The feedback forms are available in the
comment file at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-
21-19/s72119.htm.
10See, e.g., Comment Letter of Wellington
Management Company LLP (Feb. 10, 2020)
(‘‘Wellington Comment Letter’’); Comment Letter of
Fidelity Management Research Company LLC (Feb.
10, 2020) (‘‘Fidelity Comment Letter’’);
11See, e.g., Comment Letter of Investment
Adviser Association (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘IAA
Comment Letter’’); Comment Letter of the National
Society of Compliance Professionals (Feb. 7, 2020)
(‘‘NSCP Comment Letter’’).
12See, e.g., Comment Letter of LinkedIn
Corporation (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘LinkedIn Comment
Letter’’); Comment Letter of the North American
Securities Administrators Association (NASAA)
(Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘NASAA Comment Letter’’).
13See, e.g., Comment Letter of Financial Services
Institute (Feb. 12, 2020) (‘‘FSI Comment Letter’’);
Comment Letter of SIFMA Asset Management
Group on proposed solicitation rule (Feb. 10, 2020)
(‘‘SIFMA AMG Comment Letter I’’).
14See, e.g., Comment Letter of Fried, Frank,
Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP (Feb. 10, 2020)
(‘‘Fried Frank Comment Letter’’); Comment Letter of
Sidley Austin LLP (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Sidley Austin
Comment Letter’’).
15See, e.g., Comment Letter of Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Credit
Suisse Comment Letter’’); SIFMA AMG Comment
Letter I.
16See, e.g., Comment Letter of the Small Business
Investor Alliance (Feb. 7, 2020) (‘‘SBIA Comment
Letter’’); Comment Letter of the Consumer
Federation of America (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Consumer
Federation Comment Letter’’).
17See, e.g., Comment Letter of SIFMA Asset
Management Group on proposed advertising rule
(Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II’’);
Comment Letter of Joseph H. Nesler (Jan. 15, 2020)
(‘‘Nesler Comment Letter’’).
18See e.g., FSI Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG
Comment Letter II.
19See, e.g., IAA Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG
Comment Letter II; Comment Letter of Mercer
Advisors (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Mercer Comment
Letter’’). See also FSI Comment Letter.
20See e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II; FSI
Comment Letter; IAA Comment Letter; Comment
Letter of the Money Management Institute (Feb. 10,
2020) (‘‘MMI Comment Letter’’); Nesler Comment
Letter.
21The final rule will apply to all investment
advisers registered, or required to be registered,
with the Commission. Like the proposal, the final
rule will not apply to advisers that are not required
to register as investment advisers with the
Commission, such as exempt reporting advisers or
state-registered advisers.
22Hypothetical performance information that is
provided in response to an unsolicited investor
request or to a private fund investor in a one-on
one communication is excluded from the first prong
of the definition of advertisement.
The proposed rule also would have
required internal review and approval of
most advertisements. Finally, we
proposed amendments requiring each
adviser to report additional information
regarding its advertising practices in its
Form ADV.
Additionally, we proposed
amendments to the solicitation rule to:
(i) Expand the rule to cover solicitation
arrangements involving all forms of
compensation, rather than only cash
compensation; (ii) expand the rule to
apply to the solicitation of current and
prospective investors in any private
fund, rather than only to ‘‘clients’’
(including prospective clients) of the
investment adviser; (iii) eliminate
requirements duplicative of other rules;
(iv) include exceptions for de minimis
payments and certain non-profit
programs; and (v) expand the types of
disciplinary events that would trigger
the rule’s disqualification provisions.
We received more than 90 comment
letters on the proposal.8 The
Commission also received feedback
flyers from individual investors on
investment adviser marketing and from
smaller advisers on the proposal’s
effects on small entities.9 Commenters
generally supported modernizing these
rules and agreed with our general
approach. Many commenters, however,
expressed concern that several aspects
of the proposed amendments to the
advertising rule would increase an
investment adviser’s compliance
burden.10 For example, some
commenters suggested removing the
proposed internal pre-use review and
approval requirement and narrowing the
proposed definition of
‘‘advertisement.’’ 11 Others requested
that we provide additional guidance on
various topics, such as how the general
prohibitions will apply in certain
scenarios.12 Commenters also expressed
concern that the proposed amendments
to the solicitation rule would
significantly expand several aspects of
the existing rule. For example, some
commenters argued that the proposed
definition of ‘‘solicitor’’ was too broad
and suggested alternatives or
limitations.13 Others disagreed with the
proposed expansion of the rule to
include non-cash compensation and
solicitations of private fund investors.14
Commenters also recommended
modifications to the disqualification
provisions, such as aligning them with
disqualification provisions in our other
rules and limiting the scope of affiliate
disqualification.15
Commenters generally supported our
approach to permit testimonials and
endorsements; 16 however, they
highlighted the difficulty in assessing
when compensated testimonials and
endorsements under the proposed
advertising rule would also trigger the
application of the proposed solicitation
rule.17 Commenters argued that
applying both rules to the same conduct
is duplicative and burdensome.18 Some
commenters suggested that we regulate
endorsements and testimonials only
under the advertising rule,19 whereas
others suggested various ways to limit
the conduct that would be subject to
both rules.20
Merged Marketing Rule
After considering comments, we are
adopting a rule with several
modifications.21 We believe it is
appropriate to regulate investment
adviser advertising and solicitation
activity through a single rule: The
marketing rule. This approach is
designed to balance the Commission’s
goals of protecting investors from
misleading advertisements and
solicitations, while accommodating
current marketing practices and their
continued evolution.
• The final marketing rule will
include an expanded definition of
‘‘advertisement,’’ relative to the current
advertising rule, that will encompass an
investment adviser’s marketing activity
for investment advisory services with
regard to securities. We have
determined not to expand the definition
of advertisement to include
communications addressed to one
person as proposed, and instead will
retain the current rule’s exclusion of
one-on-one communications from the
definition, except with regard to
compensated testimonials and
endorsements and certain
communications that include
hypothetical performance
information.22 In addition, the
definition will not include
communications designed to retain
existing investors. The final definition
also will include exceptions for
extemporaneous, live, oral
communications; and information
contained in a statutory or regulatory
notice, filing, or other required
communication.
• Largely as proposed, the final rule
will apply to certain communications
sent to clients and private fund
investors, but will not apply to
advertisements about registered
investment companies or business
development companies.
• A set of seven principles-based
general prohibitions will apply to all
advertisements. These are drawn from
historic anti-fraud principles under the
Federal securities laws and are tailored
specifically to the type of
communications that are within the
scope of the rule.
• The final rule will permit an
adviser’s advertisement to include
testimonials and endorsements, subject
generally to the following conditions:
Required disclosures; adviser oversight
and compliance, including a written
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13026 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
8The comment letters on the 2019 Proposing
Release (File No. S7–21–19) are available at https://
www.sec.gov/comments/s7-21-19/s72119.htm.
9The feedback forms are available in the
comment file at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-
21-19/s72119.htm.
10See, e.g., Comment Letter of Wellington
Management Company LLP (Feb. 10, 2020)
(‘‘Wellington Comment Letter’’); Comment Letter of
Fidelity Management Research Company LLC (Feb.
10, 2020) (‘‘Fidelity Comment Letter’’);
11See, e.g., Comment Letter of Investment
Adviser Association (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘IAA
Comment Letter’’); Comment Letter of the National
Society of Compliance Professionals (Feb. 7, 2020)
(‘‘NSCP Comment Letter’’).
12See, e.g., Comment Letter of LinkedIn
Corporation (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘LinkedIn Comment
Letter’’); Comment Letter of the North American
Securities Administrators Association (NASAA)
(Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘NASAA Comment Letter’’).
13See, e.g., Comment Letter of Financial Services
Institute (Feb. 12, 2020) (‘‘FSI Comment Letter’’);
Comment Letter of SIFMA Asset Management
Group on proposed solicitation rule (Feb. 10, 2020)
(‘‘SIFMA AMG Comment Letter I’’).
14See, e.g., Comment Letter of Fried, Frank,
Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP (Feb. 10, 2020)
(‘‘Fried Frank Comment Letter’’); Comment Letter of
Sidley Austin LLP (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Sidley Austin
Comment Letter’’).
15See, e.g., Comment Letter of Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Credit
Suisse Comment Letter’’); SIFMA AMG Comment
Letter I.
16See, e.g., Comment Letter of the Small Business
Investor Alliance (Feb. 7, 2020) (‘‘SBIA Comment
Letter’’); Comment Letter of the Consumer
Federation of America (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Consumer
Federation Comment Letter’’).
17See, e.g., Comment Letter of SIFMA Asset
Management Group on proposed advertising rule
(Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II’’);
Comment Letter of Joseph H. Nesler (Jan. 15, 2020)
(‘‘Nesler Comment Letter’’).
18See e.g., FSI Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG
Comment Letter II.
19See, e.g., IAA Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG
Comment Letter II; Comment Letter of Mercer
Advisors (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Mercer Comment
Letter’’). See also FSI Comment Letter.
20See e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II; FSI
Comment Letter; IAA Comment Letter; Comment
Letter of the Money Management Institute (Feb. 10,
2020) (‘‘MMI Comment Letter’’); Nesler Comment
Letter.
21The final rule will apply to all investment
advisers registered, or required to be registered,
with the Commission. Like the proposal, the final
rule will not apply to advisers that are not required
to register as investment advisers with the
Commission, such as exempt reporting advisers or
state-registered advisers.
22Hypothetical performance information that is
provided in response to an unsolicited investor
request or to a private fund investor in a one-on
one communication is excluded from the first prong
of the definition of advertisement.
The proposed rule also would have
required internal review and approval of
most advertisements. Finally, we
proposed amendments requiring each
adviser to report additional information
regarding its advertising practices in its
Form ADV.
Additionally, we proposed
amendments to the solicitation rule to:
(i) Expand the rule to cover solicitation
arrangements involving all forms of
compensation, rather than only cash
compensation; (ii) expand the rule to
apply to the solicitation of current and
prospective investors in any private
fund, rather than only to ‘‘clients’’
(including prospective clients) of the
investment adviser; (iii) eliminate
requirements duplicative of other rules;
(iv) include exceptions for de minimis
payments and certain non-profit
programs; and (v) expand the types of
disciplinary events that would trigger
the rule’s disqualification provisions.
We received more than 90 comment
letters on the proposal.8 The
Commission also received feedback
flyers from individual investors on
investment adviser marketing and from
smaller advisers on the proposal’s
effects on small entities.9 Commenters
generally supported modernizing these
rules and agreed with our general
approach. Many commenters, however,
expressed concern that several aspects
of the proposed amendments to the
advertising rule would increase an
investment adviser’s compliance
burden.10 For example, some
commenters suggested removing the
proposed internal pre-use review and
approval requirement and narrowing the
proposed definition of
‘‘advertisement.’’ 11 Others requested
that we provide additional guidance on
various topics, such as how the general
prohibitions will apply in certain
scenarios.12 Commenters also expressed
concern that the proposed amendments
to the solicitation rule would
significantly expand several aspects of
the existing rule. For example, some
commenters argued that the proposed
definition of ‘‘solicitor’’ was too broad
and suggested alternatives or
limitations.13 Others disagreed with the
proposed expansion of the rule to
include non-cash compensation and
solicitations of private fund investors.14
Commenters also recommended
modifications to the disqualification
provisions, such as aligning them with
disqualification provisions in our other
rules and limiting the scope of affiliate
disqualification.15
Commenters generally supported our
approach to permit testimonials and
endorsements; 16 however, they
highlighted the difficulty in assessing
when compensated testimonials and
endorsements under the proposed
advertising rule would also trigger the
application of the proposed solicitation
rule.17 Commenters argued that
applying both rules to the same conduct
is duplicative and burdensome.18 Some
commenters suggested that we regulate
endorsements and testimonials only
under the advertising rule,19 whereas
others suggested various ways to limit
the conduct that would be subject to
both rules.20
Merged Marketing Rule
After considering comments, we are
adopting a rule with several
modifications.21 We believe it is
appropriate to regulate investment
adviser advertising and solicitation
activity through a single rule: The
marketing rule. This approach is
designed to balance the Commission’s
goals of protecting investors from
misleading advertisements and
solicitations, while accommodating
current marketing practices and their
continued evolution.
• The final marketing rule will
include an expanded definition of
‘‘advertisement,’’ relative to the current
advertising rule, that will encompass an
investment adviser’s marketing activity
for investment advisory services with
regard to securities. We have
determined not to expand the definition
of advertisement to include
communications addressed to one
person as proposed, and instead will
retain the current rule’s exclusion of
one-on-one communications from the
definition, except with regard to
compensated testimonials and
endorsements and certain
communications that include
hypothetical performance
information.22 In addition, the
definition will not include
communications designed to retain
existing investors. The final definition
also will include exceptions for
extemporaneous, live, oral
communications; and information
contained in a statutory or regulatory
notice, filing, or other required
communication.
• Largely as proposed, the final rule
will apply to certain communications
sent to clients and private fund
investors, but will not apply to
advertisements about registered
investment companies or business
development companies.
• A set of seven principles-based
general prohibitions will apply to all
advertisements. These are drawn from
historic anti-fraud principles under the
Federal securities laws and are tailored
specifically to the type of
communications that are within the
scope of the rule.
• The final rule will permit an
adviser’s advertisement to include
testimonials and endorsements, subject
generally to the following conditions:
Required disclosures; adviser oversight
and compliance, including a written
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations 13027
23See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(i) and (ii).
24See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(i).
25See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(i)(A) and (B).
26See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(ii). As discussed
below, uncompensated testimonials and
endorsements that are included in certain adviser
communications would meet the first prong of the
definition of advertisement. See infra ‘‘Adoption
and entanglement’’ section.
27See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(ii).
28See, e.g., SBIA Comment Letter; Consumer
Federation Comment Letter; Comment Letter of the
Institutional Limited Partners Association (Feb. 10,
2020) (‘‘ILPA Comment Letter’’).
29See, e.g., Wellington Comment Letter; Pickard
Djinis Comment Letter; Comment Letter of Managed
Funds Association and Alternative Investment
Management Association (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘MFA/
AIMA Comment Letter I’’).
30See, e.g., Fidelity Comment Letter; NSCP
Comment Letter; IAA Comment Letter. 31See, e.g., NYC Bar Comment Letter; Comment
Letter of the Financial Planning Association (Feb.
10, 2020) (‘‘FPA Comment Letter’’).
agreement for certain promoters; and, in
some cases, disqualification provisions.
We are adopting partial exemptions for
de minimis compensation, affiliated
personnel, registered broker-dealers,
and certain persons to the extent they
are covered by rule 506(d) of Regulation
D under the Securities Act with respect
to a securities offering.
• An adviser’s advertisement may
include a third-party rating, if the
adviser forms a reasonable belief that
the third-party rating clearly and
prominently discloses certain
information.
• The final rule will apply to
performance advertising and will
require presentation of net performance
information whenever gross
performance is presented, and
performance data over specific periods.
In addition, the final rule will impose
requirements on advisers that display
related performance, extracted
performance, hypothetical performance,
and—in a change from the proposal—
predecessor performance. We are not
adopting, however, the proposed
separate requirements for performance
advertising for retail and non-retail
investors.
• We are amending the recordkeeping
rule and Form ADV to reflect the final
rule and enhance the data available to
support our staff’s enforcement and
examination functions.
• In a change from the proposal, the
final rule will not require investment
advisers to review and approve their
advertisements prior to dissemination.
• Finally, certain staff no-action
letters will be withdrawn in connection
with the final rule as those positions are
either incorporated into the final rule or
will no longer apply.
II. Discussion
A. Scope of the Rule: Definition of
‘‘Advertisement’’
1. Overview
Under the final marketing rule, the
definition of an advertisement includes
two prongs.23 The first prong includes
any direct or indirect communication an
investment adviser makes that: (i) Offers
the investment adviser’s investment
advisory services with regard to
securities to prospective clients or
investors in a private fund advised by
the investment adviser (‘‘private fund
investors’’), or (ii) offers new investment
advisory services with regard to
securities to current clients or private
fund investors.24 This prong will
capture traditional advertising, and will
not include one-on-one
communications, unless the
communication includes hypothetical
performance information that is not
provided: (i) In response to an
unsolicited investor request or (ii) to a
private fund investor. It also excludes (i)
extemporaneous, live, oral
communications; and (ii) information
contained in a statutory or regulatory
notice, filing, or other required
communication, provided that such
information is reasonably designed to
satisfy the requirements of such notice,
filing, or other required
communication.25
The new second prong will cover
compensated testimonials and
endorsements, which will include a
similar scope of activity as traditional
solicitations under the current
solicitation rule.26 This prong will
include oral communications and one
on-one communications to capture
traditional one-on-one solicitation
activity, in addition to solicitations for
non-cash compensation. It will exclude
certain information contained in a
statutory or regulatory notice, filing, or
other required communication.27
2. Definition of Advertisement:
Communications Other Than
Compensated Testimonials and
Endorsements
Proposed rule 206(4)–1(e)(1) would
have defined an advertisement as any
communication, disseminated by any
means, by or on behalf of an investment
adviser, that offers or promotes the
investment adviser’s investment
advisory services or that seeks to obtain
or retain one or more investment
advisory clients or private fund
investors, subject to certain enumerated
exclusions. Although some commenters
supported the proposed definition,28
most commenters stated that it was
overly broad.29 Some commenters stated
that the proposed definition would chill
adviser communications to existing
investors, increase compliance burdens
for advisers, and complicate
communications with various third
parties.30
After considering comments, we are
making several modifications to hone
the scope of the rule to the
communications that have a greater risk
of misleading investors, ease
compliance burdens that commenters
suggested would result from the
proposed rule’s scope, and facilitate
communications with existing investors.
a. Specific Provisions
In a textual (but not substantive)
change from the proposal, the final rule
will not include the phrase
‘‘disseminated by any means’’ and
instead will reference any direct or
indirect communication the adviser
makes. We believe these two
formulations carry the same meaning,
but understand from commenters that
the phrase ‘‘direct or indirect’’ is more
familiar to advisers. This reference to
direct or indirect communications will
replace the current advertising rule’s
requirement that an advertisement be a
‘‘written’’ communication or a notice or
other announcement ‘‘by radio or
television.’’ We are deleting references
in the current advertising rule to
specific types of communications to
ensure that the final rule reflects
modern communication methods, rather
than the methods that were most
common when the Commission adopted
the current rule (e.g., newspapers,
television, and radio). Commenters
generally did not oppose omitting the
current rule’s references to specific
methods of communication and
supported such modernization of the
current rule.31
This revision will expand the scope of
the current rule to encompass all offers
of an investment adviser’s investment
advisory services with regard to
securities regardless of how they are
disseminated, with the limited
exceptions discussed below. An adviser
may disseminate such communications
through emails, text messages, instant
messages, electronic presentations,
videos, films, podcasts, digital audio or
video files, blogs, billboards, and all
manner of social media, as well as by
paper, including in newspapers,
magazines, and the mail. We recognize
that electronic media (including social
media and other internet
communications) and mobile
communications play a significant role
in current advertising practices. We also
believe this revision will help the
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13028 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
32See infra ‘‘Adoption and entanglement’’
section.
33See proposed rule 206(4)–1(e)(1).
34See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II; FSI
Comment Letter; Comment Letter of the CFA
Institute (Feb. 24, 2020) (‘‘CFA Institute Comment
Letter’’); Comment Letter of ICE Data Pricing &
Reference Data, LLC (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘ICE Comment
Letter’’).
35See, e.g., LinkedIn Comment Letter; Comment
Letter of Resolute Investment Managers (Feb. 10,
2020) (‘‘Resolute Comment Letter’’); IAA Comment
Letter.
36See, e.g., Comment Letter of the American
Investment Council (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘AIC Comment
Letter’’); Nesler Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG
Comment Letter II; CFA Institute Comment Letter.
37Section 208 of the Advisers Act states that ‘‘[i]t
shall be unlawful for any person indirectly, or
through or by any other person, to do any act or
thing which it would be unlawful for such person
to do directly . . .’’ See, e.g., In the Matter of
Profitek, Inc., Release No. IA–1764 (Sept. 29, 1998)
(settled order) (The Commission brought an
enforcement action against an investment adviser,
asserting that it directly or indirectly distributed
materially false and misleading advertisements,
including by submitting performance information
in questionnaires submitted to online databases that
were made available to subscribers nationwide and
by providing misleading performance information
to a newspaper that reported the performance in an
article.).
38See infra ‘‘Adoption and entanglement’’
section.
39An adviser’s ‘‘related person’’ is defined in
Form ADV’s Glossary of Terms as ‘‘[a]ny advisory
affiliate and any person that is under common
control with [the adviser’s] firm.’’ Italicized terms
are defined in the Form ADV Glossary. See Form
ADV Glossary.
40However, the adviser will remain responsible
for the accuracy of the marketing material provided
to and disseminated by the third party even if the
third party makes formatting changes that do not
affect the content of that marketing material or
prominence of particular disclosures therein.
41See, e.g., AIC Comment Letter; Comment Letter
of JG Advisory Services, LLC (Jan. 9, 2020) (‘‘JG
Advisory Comment Letter’’).
42 In this discussion, the acquiring fund adviser
(or the adviser to, or sponsor of, a feeder fund in a
master-feeder structure) generally would be
treated as an intermediary and not as an investor
in the underlying fund (or the master fund in a
master-feeder structure).
definition remain evergreen in the face
of evolving technology and methods of
communication.
i. Any Direct or Indirect Communication
an Investment Adviser Makes
The first prong of the final marketing
rule’s definition of ‘‘advertisement’’
includes an adviser’s direct or indirect
communications. In addition to
communicating directly with
prospective investors, we understand
that investment advisers often provide
intermediaries, such as consultants,
other advisers (e.g., in a fund-of-funds
or feeder funds structure), and
promoters, with advertisements for
dissemination. Those advertisements
are indirect communications because
they are statements provided by the
adviser for dissemination by a third
party. This aspect of the definition also
will capture certain communications
distributed by an adviser that
incorporate statements or other content
prepared by a third party.32
The final rule text reflects a change
from the proposal, which would have
applied to any communications ‘‘by or
on behalf of’’ an adviser.33 Commenters
generally suggested that we remove the
‘‘on behalf of’’ clause from the
definition, citing concerns that advisers
would not be able to collaborate with
third parties to prepare and disseminate
advertising materials and that it would
stifle communications between advisers
and certain third parties.34 Certain
commenters requested safe harbors for
communications with the press and
removal of profane or illegal materials.35
Commenters also requested clarification
on how the rule would apply to funds
of-funds, model providers, solicitors,
and employee use of social media.36
We believe communications that
investment advisers use to offer their
advisory services have an equal
potential to mislead—and should be
subject to the rule—regardless of
whether the adviser communicates
directly or indirectly through a third
party, such as a consultant,
intermediary, or related person.37
Likewise, an adviser should not be able
to avoid application of the rule when it
incorporates third-party content into its
communications.38 To address
commenters’ concerns about the clarity
of the standard, however, we replaced
‘‘on behalf of’’ with ‘‘directly or
indirectly.’’ Our view is that these
phrases largely have the same meaning,
but that ‘‘directly or indirectly’’ is more
commonly used, broadly understood,
and consistent with the language in the
current rule. In addition, we believe that
the phrase ‘‘direct or indirect
communication an investment adviser
makes’’ better focuses on an adviser’s
participation in making a particular
communication subject to the rule.
Whether a particular communication
is a communication made by the adviser
is a facts and circumstances
determination. Where the adviser has
participated in the creation or
dissemination of an advertisement, or
where an adviser has authorized a
communication, the communication
would be a communication of the
adviser. For example, if an adviser
provides marketing material to a third
party for dissemination to potential
investors, the communication is a
communication made by the adviser. In
addition, we would generally view any
advertisement about the adviser that is
distributed and/or prepared by a related
person as an indirect communication by
the adviser, and thus subject to the final
rule.39 Although the final marketing rule
will not require an adviser to oversee all
activities of a third party, the adviser is
responsible for ensuring that its
advertisements comply with the rule,
regardless of who creates or
disseminates them.
An adviser might collaborate with a
third party to prepare marketing
materials in other circumstances that
would not constitute dissemination by
an adviser. If an adviser provides
comments on a marketing piece, but a
third party does not accept the adviser’s
comments or the third party makes
unauthorized modifications, the adviser
will not be responsible for the third
party’s subsequent modifications that
were made independently of the adviser
and that the adviser did not approve.40
This analysis would be based on the
facts and circumstances. Formal
authorization of dissemination, or lack
thereof, by the adviser is not dispositive,
although it would be considered part of
the analysis.
Commenters sought clarification on
how the definition of ‘‘advertisement’’
would apply in the fund-of-funds and
master-feeder contexts.41 If an adviser to
an underlying fund provides marketing
materials to the adviser of a fund-of
funds (or a feeder fund) and the adviser
to the fund-of-funds (or a feeder fund)
provides those materials to investors,
the underlying fund adviser would be
responsible for the material it prepared
or authorized for distribution.42 The
underlying fund adviser would not be
responsible for modifications the
adviser of the fund-of-funds made to the
underlying fund adviser’s original
advertisement if the underlying fund
adviser did not approve the adviser’s
edits. Similarly, a third-party model
provider would not be responsible for
modifications the end-user adviser
made to the third-party model used in
an advertisement if done without the
model provider’s involvement or
authorization.
Adoption and Entanglement
Depending on the particular facts and
circumstances, third-party information
also may be attributable to an adviser
under the first prong of the final rule.
For example, an adviser may distribute
information generated by a third party
or a third party could include
information about an adviser’s
investment advisory services in the
third party’s materials. In these
scenarios, whether the third-party
information is attributable to the adviser
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations 13029
43See Interpretive Guidance on the Use of
Company websites, Release No. IC–28351 (Aug. 1,
2008) [73 FR 45862 (Aug. 7, 2008)] (‘‘2008 Release’’)
(‘‘[W]hether third-party information is attributable
to a company depends upon whether the company
has: (1) involved itself in the preparation of the
information, or (2) explicitly or implicitly endorsed
or approved the information.’’); Use of Electronic
Media, Release No. 34–42728 (Apr. 28, 2000) [65 FR
25843 (May 4, 2000)] (‘‘2000 Release’’) at nn.52, 54;
Use of Electronic Media for Delivery Purposes,
Release No. 34–36345 (Oct. 6, 1995) [60 FR 53458
(Oct. 13, 1995)] (‘‘1995 Release’’).
44See 2008 Release, supra footnote 43.
45See, e.g., In the Matter of BB&T Securities, LLC,
Release No. IA–4506 (Aug. 25, 2016) (settled order)
(The Commission brought an enforcement action
against an SEC-registered investment adviser
alleging that it negligently relied on a third party’s
materially inflated, and hypothetical and
backtested, performance track record in preparing
advertisements that the adviser sent to advisory
clients and prospective clients.).
46See infra section II.B.
47See 2000 Release, supra footnote 43
(‘‘[L]iability under the ‘entanglement’ theory would
depend upon an issuer’s level of pre-publication
involvement in the preparation of the
information.’’).
48For example, an adviser could not have a
policy to remove only negative comments about the
adviser. 49We previously stated that an adviser should
consider the application of rule 206(4)–1, including
the existing prohibition of testimonials, before
including hyperlinks to third-party websites on its
website or in its electronic communications. See
2008 Release, supra footnote 43. 50Other content that offers or promotes the
adviser’s services on an adviser’s own website or
social media page would likely meet the definition
of ‘‘advertisement’’ under the final rule.
51See supra ‘‘Adoption and entanglement’’
section (discussing an adviser’s ability to edit third
party material based on objective criteria).
52See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II;
LinkedIn Comment Letter; IAA Comment Letter. We
believe that our modifications to the first prong of
the definition of advertisement also will alleviate
commenters’ concerns as there are now fewer
scenarios in which communications on employee
social media accounts would meet the definition of
advertisement.
will require an analysis of the facts and
circumstances to determine (i) whether
the adviser has explicitly or implicitly
endorsed or approved the information
after its publication (adoption) or (ii) the
extent to which the adviser has involved
itself in the preparation of the
information (entanglement).43
An adviser ‘‘adopts’’ third-party
information when it explicitly or
implicitly endorses or approves the
information.44 For example, if an
adviser incorporates information it
receives from a third party into its
performance advertising, the adviser has
adopted the third-party content, and the
third-party content will be attributed to
the adviser.45 An adviser is liable for
such third-party content under the
marketing rule just as it would be liable
for content it produced itself.46 In
addition, an adviser may have
‘‘entangled’’ itself in a third-party
communication if the adviser involves
itself in the third party’s preparation of
the information.47
Nevertheless, we would not view an
adviser’s edits to an existing third-party
communication to result in attribution
of that communication to the adviser if
the adviser edits a third party’s
communication based on pre
established, objective criteria (i.e.,
editing to remove profanity, defamatory
or offensive statements, threatening
language, materials that contain viruses
or other harmful components, spam,
unlawful content, or materials that
infringe on intellectual property rights,
or editing to correct a factual error) that
are documented in the adviser’s policies
and procedures and that are not
designed to favor or disfavor the
adviser.48 In these circumstances, we
would not view the adviser as endorsing
or approving the remaining content by
virtue of such limited editing.
Guidance on Social Media
Questions about whether a
communication is attributable to an
adviser may commonly arise in the
context of an adviser’s use of websites
or other social media. For example, an
adviser might include a hyperlink in an
advertisement to an independent web
page on which third-party content sits.
An adviser should consider the
adoption and entanglement concepts
discussed above to determine whether
the hyperlinked third-party content
would be attributed to the adviser.49 At
the same time, an adviser’s hyperlink to
third-party content that the adviser
knows or has reason to know contains
an untrue statement of material fact or
materially misleading information
would also be fraudulent or deceptive
under section 206 of the Act and other
applicable anti-fraud provisions.
Whether content posted by third
parties on an adviser’s own website or
social media page would be attributed to
the investment adviser also depends on
the facts and circumstances surrounding
the adviser’s involvement.50 For
example, permitting all third parties to
post public commentary to the adviser’s
website or social media page would not,
by itself, render such content
attributable to the adviser, so long as the
adviser does not selectively delete or
alter the comments or their presentation
and is not involved in the preparation
of the content.51 We believe such
treatment of third-party content on the
adviser’s own website or social media
page is appropriate even if the adviser
has the ability to influence the
commentary but does not exercise this
authority. For example, if the social
media platform allows the investment
adviser to sort the third-party content in
such a way that more favorable content
appears more prominently, but the
investment adviser does not actually do
such sorting, then the ability to sort
content would not, by itself, render such
content attributable to the adviser. In
addition, if an adviser merely permits
the use of ‘‘like,’’ ‘‘share,’’ or ‘‘endorse’’
features on a third-party website or
social media platform, we would not
interpret the adviser’s permission as
implicating the final rule.
Conversely, if the investment adviser
takes affirmative steps to involve itself
in the preparation or presentation of the
comments, to endorse or approve the
comments, or to edit posted comments,
those comments would be attributed to
the adviser. This would apply to the
affirmative steps an adviser takes both
on its own website or social media
pages, as well as on third-party
websites. For example, if an adviser
substantively modifies the presentation
of comments posted by others by
deleting or suppressing negative
comments or prioritizing the display of
positive comments, then we would
attribute the comments to the adviser
(i.e., the communication would be an
indirect statement of the adviser)
because the adviser would have
modified third-party comments with the
goal of marketing its advisory business.
However, as discussed above, we would
not view an adviser’s merely editing
profane, unlawful, or other such content
according to a neutral pre-existing
policy as the adviser adopting the
content.
Some commenters sought assurances
that the definition of advertisement
would not cover an adviser’s associated
persons’ activity on their personal social
media accounts.52 We have concerns
that, under certain circumstances, it
could be difficult for an investor to
differentiate a communication of the
associated person in his/her personal
capacity from a communication the
associated person made for the adviser.
With respect to social media postings to
associated persons’ own accounts, it
would be a facts and circumstances
analysis relating to the adviser’s
supervision and compliance efforts. If
the adviser adopts and implements
policies and procedures reasonably
designed to prevent the use of an
associated person’s social media
accounts for marketing the adviser’s
advisory services, we generally would
not view such communication as the
adviser marketing its advisory
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13030 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
53An associated person who, notwithstanding
these policies and procedures, engages in
communications inconsistent with the rule may,
depending on the facts and circumstances, be held
responsible for violations of the rule.
54See, e.g., IAA Comment Letter; AICPA
Comment Letter.
55See, e.g., Comment Letter of Commonwealth
Financial Network (Feb. 10, 2020)
(‘‘Commonwealth Comment Letter’’) (stating that
the lack of complete overlap with FINRA rules
would make compliance especially burdensome for
dual registrants); Comment Letter of the National
Regulatory Services (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘NRS
Comment Letter’’). Commenters also noted that
advisers have adopted long-standing practices in
reliance on the existing exclusion of one-on-one
communications. See, e.g., Comment Letter of the
New York City Bar (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘NYC Bar
Comment Letter’’).
56See, e.g., IAA Comment Letter (stating that the
proposed rule ‘‘would blur the line between client
servicing and marketing’’); Wellington Comment
Letter; Fidelity Comment Letter; MFA/AIMA
Comment Letter I.
57See, e.g., CFA Institute Comment Letter;
Comment Letter of the Council of Institutional
Investors (Feb. 11, 2020) (‘‘CII Comment Letter’’).
58See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II. 59As discussed below, we also have eliminated
the element of the proposed rule that would apply
to communications to retain investors. 60See proposed rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(ii). We
proposed to exclude from the definition of
‘‘advertisement’’ any communication by an
investment adviser ‘‘that does no more than
respond to an unsolicited request’’ for ‘‘information
specified in such request about the investment
adviser or its services’’ other than a communication
to a retail person that includes performance results
or a communication that includes hypothetical
performance.
61See, e.g., Wellington Comment Letter; MFA/
AIMA Comment Letter I; IAA Comment Letter.
62See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(i)(A)–(C).
63See Prohibited Advertisements, Release No.
IA–119 (Aug. 8, 1961) [26 FR 7552, 7553 (Nov. 15,
1961)].
64 Id.
65See, e.g., section 206 of the Act; rule 206(4)–
8 under the Act.
66See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I; IAA
Comment Letter (stating that the Commission
should ‘‘make clear in the adopting release that the
same communication to multiple natural persons
representing a single institution or client/account
counts as a communication to a single person’’).
67See, e.g., rule 30e–1(f) under the Investment
Company Act.
68See, e.g., IAA Comment Letter (suggesting the
more than 25 person threshold because FINRA rule
2210 uses this approach and stating that
consistency would ease compliance burdens).
69See, e.g., FPA Comment Letter.
services.53 To achieve effective
supervision and compliance, an adviser
may consider also prohibiting such
communications, conducting periodic
training, obtaining attestations, and
periodically reviewing content that is
publicly available on associated
persons’ social media accounts.
ii. To More Than One Person
Consistent with the current rule’s
exclusion of one-on-one
communications, the first prong of the
final definition of ‘‘advertisement’’
generally does not include
communications to one person. While
our proposed rule would have treated
communications directed to ‘‘one or
more’’ persons as advertisements,
commenters generally opposed this
expansion.54 In particular, commenters
argued that subjecting one-on-one
communications to the requirements of
the proposed rule would create
untenable burdens given the proposed
review and approval obligation
(including enhanced recordkeeping
requirements).55 Commenters also
stated that it would chill adviser/
investor communications.56 According
to commenters, scoping a one-on-one
communication into the rule would
require advisers to review each
communication to determine whether it
is an advertisement, which could
prevent an adviser from providing
timely information to investors and
satisfying its fiduciary obligations.57 We
received comments that
communications to existing investors
are already subject to the anti-fraud
provisions of the Advisers Act, and
therefore communications to existing
investors need not be subject to the final
rule.58
After considering the comments, we
have determined to exclude one-on-one
communications from the first prong of
the definition and retain the ‘‘more than
one’’ language in the current advertising
rule, unless such communications
include hypothetical performance
information that is not provided: (i) In
response to an unsolicited investor
request or (ii) to a private fund investor.
We have made this change to avoid the
possibility that the rule would impede
typical communications between
advisers and their existing and
prospective investors. An adviser might
have been dis-incentivized to
communicate regularly with its
investors if it believed it would have to
analyze every communication for
compliance with the proposed rule.59
Because we are excluding one-on-one
communications from the first prong of
the definition of advertisement under
most circumstances, we are modifying
the proposed exclusion for an adviser’s
responses to unsolicited requests.60
Although commenters generally
supported the exclusion and
recommended expanding it,61 we
believe excluding most one-on-one
communications addresses commenter
concerns in a more comprehensive
manner than the unsolicited request
exclusion would have addressed them.
The definition will exclude an adviser’s
responses to an unsolicited investor
request for hypothetical performance
information, as well as hypothetical
performance information provided to a
private fund investor in a one-on-one
communication, as discussed below.
Unless subject to this or another
exclusion, the definition of
advertisement will capture
communications that include
hypothetical performance information
even in a one-on-one communication.62
We also recognize that advisers have
one-on-one interactions with
prospective investors and that
prospective investors may ask questions
of an adviser or ask for additional
information. In adopting the current
advertising rule, the Commission
limited the definition of
‘‘advertisement’’ due to concerns that a
broad definition could encompass even
‘‘face to face conversations between an
investment counsel and his prospective
client.’’ 63 The Commission stated that it
would not include a ‘‘personal
conversation’’ with a client or
prospective client.64 We believe that the
same concerns that influenced the
Commission’s prior approach continue
to exist. We also believe that the
remaining provisions of the definition,
as well as other provisions of the
Federal securities laws, are adequate to
satisfy our investor protection goals
with respect to communications
directed only to a single individual or
entity.65
The one-on-one exclusion in the
definition’s first prong applies
regardless of whether the adviser makes
the communication to a natural person
with an account or multiple natural
persons representing a single entity or
account.66 The exclusion applies to a
single adviser and a single investor. For
example, if an adviser’s prospective
investor is an entity, the exclusion
permits the adviser to provide
communications to multiple natural
persons employed by or owning the
entity without those communications
being subject to the rule. For purposes
of this exclusion, we also interpret the
term ‘‘person’’ to mean one or more
investors that share the same household.
For example, a communication to a
married couple that shares the same
household would qualify for the one-on
one exclusion.67
Some commenters advocated that we
increase the ‘‘more than one’’ threshold
from the current rule to
communications with ‘‘more than ten’’
or ‘‘more than 25’’ persons.68 They
argued that such a change would reduce
compliance costs and better align with
traditional concepts of advertising.69 We
decline to make this change. The
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13031 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
70See, e.g., NSCP Comment Letter.
71The fact that there may be some similarities in
the information provided in one-on-one
communications, however, will not result in the
application of the rule to those communications.
72 In addition, the communication does not fall
within the definition of advertisement because the
purpose of the communication is not to offer
services to a new investor or to provide new
services to an existing investor. See infra section
II.A.2.a.iv.
73See Resolute Comment Letter (seeking
clarification on the treatment of ‘‘account
statements and similar reports intended for Non
Retail Persons, such as public entities, that are
required to make such information publicly
available’’). If the entity is an existing investor of
the adviser, communications to the entity would
not be considered an advertisement unless the
communications offer or promote new advisory
products or services of the adviser.
74See also supra section II.A.2.a.i for a discussion
of an adviser’s direct or indirect communications.
75See infra section II.E.6. These communications
would be eligible for the exclusions from the
definition of advertisement for extemporaneous,
live, oral communications and regulatory notices in
final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(i)(A) and (B).
76See 2019 Proposing Release, supra footnote 7,
at section II.A.2. (proposing that communications to
any person that contain hypothetical performance
would not qualify for the unsolicited request
exclusion to the extent they contain such results);
proposed rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(ii)(B).
77See IAA Comment Letter; ILPA Comment
Letter. 78See IAA Comment Letter; Comment Letter of
Managed Funds Association and Alternative
Investment Management Association (Sept. 11,
2020) (‘‘MFA/AIMA Comment Letter III’’). 79Any affirmative effort by the investment
adviser intended or designed to induce an investor
to request hypothetical performance information
would render the request solicited and thus not
eligible for this exclusion.
exclusion from the first prong of the
definition of advertisement for one-on
one communications will allow an
adviser to engage in routine investor
communications and have personal
conversations with prospective
investors, without subjecting those
communications to the final marketing
rule’s requirements. However, we
continue to believe that the final rule
should cover typical marketing
communications, even if sent to a
limited number of persons. Creating a
higher threshold, as suggested by
commenters, may incentivize advisers
to limit communications to just below
the threshold number of persons, and
may defeat the purposes of our final
rule.
While the first prong of the final rule
will generally not apply to
communications to one person, changes
in technology since the adoption of the
existing rule permit advisers to create
communications that appear to be
personalized to single investors and are
‘‘addressed to’’ only one person, but are
actually widely disseminated to
multiple persons. While
communications such as bulk emails or
algorithm-based messages are nominally
directed at or ‘‘addressed to’’ only one
person, they are in fact widely
disseminated to numerous investors and
therefore would be subject to the final
rule.70 Similarly, customizing a
template presentation or mass mailing
by filling in the name of an investor
and/or including other basic
information about the investor would
not result in a one-on-one
communication.
Likewise, an adviser cannot use
duplicate inserts in an otherwise
customized communication in an effort
to circumvent application of the rule.71
For example, if an adviser maintains a
database of performance information
inserts or tables that it uses in otherwise
customized investor communications,
the adviser must treat the duplicated
inserts as advertisements subject to the
rule. Of course, if the adviser provides
an existing investor with performance
information pertaining to the investor’s
account, the rule would not apply
because this is a one-on-one
communication.72
One commenter expressed concern
that the public dissemination of a
seemingly one-on-one communication
could subject the communication to the
final rule.73 We believe that if, for
example, an adviser responds to a
request for proposal (‘‘RFP’’) from an
entity and the entity subsequently
makes such responses available to the
public pursuant to a Freedom of
Information Act request or other public
disclosure requirements, this would not
be an advertisement merely by virtue of
the entity’s disclosure.74 An adviser
should consider adopting compliance
policies and procedures that are
reasonably designed to determine
whether a communication nominally
directed to a single person is actually a
communication to more than one
person, or contains duplicated inserts as
part of that communication. In these
circumstances, the duplicated
information is an advertisement because
it is sent to more than one person and
would not qualify for the exclusion.
Because of the specific concerns
raised by hypothetical performance,
hypothetical performance information
would not qualify for the one-on-one
exclusion unless provided in response
to an unsolicited investor request or to
a private fund investor.75 Hypothetical
performance included in all other one
on-one communications that offer
investment advisory services with
regard to securities must be presented in
accordance with the requirements
discussed below.
We proposed a similar approach for
hypothetical performance provided in
response to an unsolicited request under
the proposed definition of
advertisement.76 Some commenters
suggested that the Commission permit
an adviser to provide hypothetical
performance in response to unsolicited
requests to eliminate the need to assess
the requirements related to hypothetical
performance.77 These commenters
stated that the need to assess these
requirements would slow down the flow
of information to investors, require
investors to provide more information
earlier in the diligence process, or limit
the hypothetical performance
information shared in response to such
an unsolicited request. Some
commenters stated that private fund
investors often seek hypothetical
performance information, particularly
targets and projections, to evaluate
private fund investments.78 After
considering these comments, we believe
that, in most circumstances, the
protections for hypothetical
performance should be available to
investors receiving communications that
include offers of investment advisory
services with regard to securities, to the
extent such offers include hypothetical
performance information. We believe
our modifications to the first prong of
the definition of advertisement and to
the requirements for presenting
hypothetical performance, discussed
below, will reduce the associated
compliance burdens for providing
hypothetical performance information
to investors and will, therefore, alleviate
some of commenters’ concerns.
However, where an investor
affirmatively seeks hypothetical
performance information from an
investment adviser and the investment
adviser has not directly or indirectly
solicited the request, hypothetical
performance information provided in
response to the request will be excluded
from the definition of advertisement
under the final rule.79 In the case of an
unsolicited request, an investor seeks
hypothetical performance information
for the investor’s own purposes, rather
than responding to a communication
disseminated by an adviser offering its
investment advisory services with
regard to securities. Similarly, where the
hypothetical performance information is
provided in a one-on-one
communication to a private fund
investor, we believe a private fund
investor will have the ability and
opportunity to ask questions and assess
the limitations of this information. In
these limited circumstances, we do not
believe it is necessary to treat the
hypothetical performance information
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13032 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
80The hypothetical performance information
would be subject to the Advisers Act’s anti-fraud
provisions and rule 206(4)–8 under the Advisers
Act.
81See proposed rule 206(4)–1(e)(1).
82See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I;
Comment Letter of Association for Corporate
Growth (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘ACG Comment Letter’’).
83Under the current advertising rule, an
‘‘advertisement’’ includes any written
communication addressed to more than one person,
or any notice or other announcement in any
publication or by radio or television, which offers
‘‘any other investment advisory service with regard
to securities.’’ See current rule 206(4)–1.
84See 2019 Proposing Release, supra footnote 7,
at section II.A.2.
85See SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II; FSI
Comment Letter.
86See SEC v. C.R. Richmond & Co., 565 F.2d
1101, 1105 (9th Cir. 1977) (‘‘Investment advisory
material which promotes advisory services for the
purpose of inducing potential clients to subscribe
to those services is advertising material within [the
current rule].’’).
87See NYC Bar Comment Letter; ACG Comment
Letter.
88See section 206 of the Act; rule 206(4)–8 under
the Act. See also Commission Interpretation
Regarding Standard of Conduct for Investment
Advisers, Release No. IA–5248 (June 5, 2019) [84 FR
33669 (July 12, 2019)] (‘‘Fiduciary Interpretation’’)
(stating that ‘‘[t]he investment adviser’s fiduciary
duty is broad and applies to the entire adviser
client relationship.’’), at n.17 (citing SEC v. Lauer,
2008 WL 4372896, at 24 (S.D. Fla. Sept. 24, 2008)
‘‘ ‘Section 206 of the Advisers Act does not require
that the activity be ‘in the offer or sale of any’
security or ‘in connection with the purchase or sale
of any security.’ ’ ’’).
89As discussed below, the definition of
advertisement in the final rule also will not include
communications designed to ‘‘retain’’ investors. See
infra section II.A.2.a.iv.
90See, e.g., Wellington Comment Letter; IAA
Comment Letter; JG Advisory Comment Letter
(stating that ‘‘the rule should treat communications
to existing investors differently from
communications to prospective investors’’).
91See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II
(discussing market commentary, investment
outlooks, performance reviews); JG Advisory
Comment Letter (seeking clarification on whether
the proposed definition would scope in monthly or
quarterly letters to existing investors where such
letters discuss account performance and include
market commentary).
92See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I.
93See, e.g., MMI Comment Letter.
94See, e.g., Wellington Comment Letter; IAA
Comment Letter; Pickard Djinis Comment Letter.
95Our staff has indicated that it would not
recommend enforcement action under the current
rule with respect to written communications by an
adviser to an existing investor about the
performance of securities in the investor’s account
because such communications would not be
‘‘offers’’ of advisory services, and instead are ‘‘part
of’’ those advisory services (unless the context in
which the communication is provided suggests
otherwise). See Investment Counsel Association of
America, Inc., SEC Staff No-Action Letter (Mar. 1,
2004) (‘‘ICAA Letter’’). Any staff guidance or no
action letters discussed in this release represent the
views of the staff of the Division of Investment
Management. They are not a rule, regulation, or
statement of the Commission. Furthermore, the
Commission has neither approved nor disapproved
their content. Staff guidance has no legal force or
effect; it does not alter or amend applicable law,
and it creates no new or additional obligations for
any person.
as an advertisement subject to the
rule.80
iii. Offers Investment Advisory Services
With Regard to Securities to Prospective
Clients or Investors in a Private Fund
Advised by the Investment Adviser
The marketing rule’s definition of
‘‘advertisement’’ includes
communications that offer the
investment adviser’s investment
advisory services. As discussed in more
detail below, we are implementing a
number of changes from the proposal,
which would have defined
advertisements to include
communications that offer or promote
the investment adviser’s investment
advisory services or that seek to obtain
or retain one or more investment
advisory clients or investors in any
pooled investment vehicle advised by
the investment adviser.81 First, we are
limiting the application of this element
of the definition to communications
directed to prospective clients or
prospective private fund investors,
rather than existing clients or private
fund investors to avoid an overbroad
application of the rule. Accordingly,
this aspect of the final rule will retain
the current rule’s scope.
Second, we also are not adopting the
‘‘or promote’’ wording from the
proposed definition of advertisement.
Commenters generally opposed
including the term ‘‘promote,’’
suggesting that this term could expand
the definition of ‘‘advertisement’’ to
cover certain materials not subject to the
current rule,82 the text of which is
limited to communications that ‘‘offer’’
advisory services.83 As we indicated in
the proposal, the ‘‘offer or promote’’
clause reflects the current rule’s
application and was designed to capture
communications that are commonly
considered advertisements.84 We added
the ‘‘or promote’’ wording to the
proposed definition for clarity, but after
considering comments we realize this
wording may instead cause confusion.
For example, commenters sought
clarification that statements about an
advisory firm’s culture, philanthropy, or
community activity would not fall
within the definition of
advertisement.85 We did not intend for
our proposed definition and the
inclusion of the term ‘‘promote’’ to
include such communications.
Accordingly, the final rule will not
include the term ‘‘promote’’ as it is our
intent to retain the current rule’s scope
in this respect.86
Third, consistent with the current
rule, we are limiting the application of
the definition to offers about an
investment adviser’s investment
advisory services with regard to
securities. We were persuaded by
commenters who urged us to retain the
current rule’s scope, arguing that
expanding the definition to cover
services that are not related to securities
could result in an overbroad application
of the rule.87 Importantly, however, the
anti-fraud provisions of the Act and
related rules continue to apply to an
adviser’s advertisements and other
communications about its other non
securities related services.88
Finally, the definition will not
include communications that seek to
obtain one or more investment advisory
clients or investors in any pooled
investment vehicle advised by the
investment adviser. We determined that
this clause was superfluous of the rest
of the definition; we believe these
communications are captured within an
adviser’s offer of investment advisory
services with regard to securities to
prospective investors in a private fund
advised by the adviser.89
iv. Offers New Investment Advisory
Services With Regard to Securities to
Current Clients or Investors in a Private
Fund Advised by the Investment
Adviser
The proposed definition of
‘‘advertisement’’ included
communications that seek ‘‘to obtain or
retain’’ investors. Commenters generally
stated that the ‘‘or retain’’ clause would
unnecessarily include communications
made in the ordinary course of an
adviser providing services to current
investors as all communications with
current investors are, at least in part,
designed to both service and retain
investors.90
Several commenters asked us to
confirm the scope of the definition as
applied to communications with
existing investors.91 For example, some
commenters suggested an exclusion for
all communications with existing
investors,92 while others supported a
more limited exclusion for routine
investor communications.93
Commenters generally agreed that the
rule should treat communications with
existing investors that offer new or
additional advisory services as
advertisements.94 Commenters that
supported a complete or partial
exclusion for communications to
existing investors stated that such
communications are part of the advisory
service and not advertisements.95
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations 13033
96See, e.g., section 206 of the Advisers Act; rule
206(4)–8 under the Advisers Act.
97See Fiduciary Interpretation, supra footnote 88.
See also IAA Comment Letter; Pickard Djinis
Comment Letter.
98Their exclusion from the definition of
advertisement will not prevent these account
statements or transaction reports from being subject
to the other provisions of the Federal securities
laws, including section 17(a) of the Securities Act
or section 10(b) of the Exchange Act (and rule
10b–5 thereunder), to the extent those provisions
would otherwise apply. Likewise, regardless of
whether a communication to an existing or
prospective investor is an ‘‘advertisement’’ under
the marketing rule, the communication is subject to
the anti-fraud provisions of section 206 of the Act
and the aforementioned provisions of the Federal
securities laws.
99See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II; JG
Advisory Comment Letter; MMI Comment Letter;
IAA Comment Letter; MFA/AIMA Comment Letter
I.
100See SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II.
101See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II;
Mercer Comment Letter; IAA Comment Letter;
Wellington Comment Letter.
102See, e.g., MMI Comment Letter (emphasizing
the importance of allowing general market
commentary to provide investors with the tools to
challenge the assumptions of those who counsel
them on financial management).
103As discussed above, the rule also excludes
from the first prong of the advertisement definition
a communication that includes hypothetical
performance that is provided in response to an
unsolicited investor request for such information or
to a private fund investor in a one-on-one
communication. See final rule 206(4)–
1(e)(1)(i)(C)(1) and (2).
104See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I; AIC
Comment Letter (stating that ‘‘written materials
prepared in conjunction with any live oral
communications should not be considered
‘advertisements’ and should be able to rely on the
exclusion if (i) they are in draft form, (ii) they are
internal documents not created for distribution, or
(iii) all or portions of their content may not be
provided to any prospective or current investor.’’).
105See SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II (arguing
that it is not clear how to define communications
that are broadcast and widely disseminated versus
those that are not); AIC Comment Letter.
106See, e.g., NASAA Comment Letter; CFA
Comment Letter; ILPA Comment Letter.
We agree that the rule should treat
only those communications that offer
new or additional advisory services
with regard to securities to current
investors as advertisements because
they raise the same concerns as other
advertisements. Our intent is not to chill
ordinary course communications with
current investors. We believe that other
protections prevent advisers from
engaging in activities that mislead or
deceive existing investors.96 For
example, existing and prospective
advisory clients receive the anti-fraud
protections of the Advisers Act and an
adviser’s fiduciary duty.97 Accordingly,
under the final rule a communication to
a current investor is an advertisement
when it offers new or additional
investment advisory services with
regard to securities. We believe that this
modification will allow advisers to
continue to provide current investors
with timely information regarding their
accounts and the market without
subjecting those communications to the
marketing rule.98
In summary, we view an adviser
seeking to offer new or additional
investment advisory services with
regard to securities to current investors
as posing the same risks to investors as
an adviser seeking to offer such services
to new investors and therefore we
believe this activity warrants the same
treatment under the final marketing
rule.
v. Brand Content, General Educational
Material, and Market Commentary
Other commenters asked us to
confirm that brand content, general
educational material, and market
commentary are not advertisements
under the rule.99 Whether a
communication is an advertisement
depends on the facts and circumstances
(e.g., whether the communication
‘‘offers’’ the adviser’s investment
advisory services with regard to
securities). Generally, generic brand
content, educational material, and
market commentary would not meet the
revised definition of an advertisement.
Brand content. Determining whether a
communication including ‘‘brand’’
content (e.g., displays of the advisory
firm name in connection with
sponsoring sporting events, supporting
community service activities, or
supporting philanthropic efforts) is an
advertisement would depend on the
facts and circumstances.100 If such a
communication is designed to raise the
profile of the adviser generally, but does
not offer any investment advisory
services with regard to securities, the
communication would not fall within
the definition of an advertisement under
the rule. For example, a communication
that simply notes that an event is
‘‘brought to you by XYZ Advisers’’
would not qualify as an advertisement,
as it is not offering any advisory services
with regard to securities.
General educational information and
market commentary. We believe that the
same analysis applies for
communications that provide only
general educational information and
market commentary.101 Educational
communications that are limited to
providing general information about
investing, such as information about
types of investment vehicles, asset
classes, strategies, certain geographic
regions, or commercial sectors, do not
constitute offers of an adviser’s
investment advisory services with
regard to securities.
Similarly, materials that provide an
adviser’s general market commentary
(including during press interviews) are
unlikely to offer advisory services with
regard to securities. Market commentary
aims to inform current and prospective
investors, including private fund
investors, of market and regulatory
developments in the broader financial
ecosystem. These materials also help
current investors interpret market and
regulatory shifts by providing context
when reviewing investments in their
portfolios, and educate investors.102 In
contrast, for example, we would view an
article or white paper that provides
general market commentary and
concludes with a description of how the
adviser’s securities-related services can
help prospective investors invest in the
market as offering the adviser’s services.
Accordingly, that portion of the white
paper would be an advertisement.
b. Exclusions
The rule will generally exclude two
types of communications from the first
prong of the definition of advertisement:
(i) Extemporaneous, live, oral
communications; and (ii) information
required by statute or regulation.103
i. Extemporaneous, Live, Oral
Communications
In a change from the proposal, the
definition of advertisement will not
include extemporaneous, live, oral
communications, regardless of whether
they are broadcast and regardless of
whether they take place in a one-on-one
context and involve discussion of
hypothetical performance. We proposed
an exclusion for live, oral
communications that are not broadcast
on radio, television, the internet, or any
other similar medium. Commenters
generally supported the exclusion, but
had questions about certain aspects. For
example, some commenters expressed
concern about the treatment of written
materials that accompany or are used to
prepare for oral presentations, stating
that treating such materials as
advertisements would hamper an
adviser’s ability to prepare for a
presentation.104 Other commenters
questioned the scope of the exclusion,
with some arguing that it was too
narrow 105 and others arguing that it was
too broad.106
The goal of the exclusion for live, oral
communications was to avoid treating
extemporaneous statements as
advertisements, in light of the
difficulties in ensuring that they comply
with the requirements of the rule, and
to avoid chilling adviser
communications with investors. If
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13034 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
107A communication need not be in-person to
qualify for the exclusion so long as it is live and
oral. For example, a phone call or live video
communication between an adviser and an investor
could qualify for this exclusion.
108As discussed in the recordkeeping section
below, a live, oral communication by an adviser
that is not extemporaneous (but that otherwise
satisfies the definition of advertisement) would be
an advertisement and a record of the advertisement
must be maintained pursuant to rule 204–
2(a)(11)(i)(A). The record of the advertisement
could be a copy of the prepared remarks, other
written preparatory materials, or a recording of the
oral communication.
109See, e.g., AIC Comment Letter (stating that live
written communications (e.g., live text chats)
should also qualify for the exclusion in order to
reflect modern communication methods).
110We consider a communication to still be
‘‘oral’’ even if closed captioning is used, but not if
the oral communication is transcribed and the
transcription is then directly or indirectly
redistributed by the adviser. See, e.g., Mercer
Comment Letter (seeking clarification that closed
captioning would not prevent a communication
from qualifying for the exclusion).
111See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II;
Fidelity Comment Letter. 112See, e.g., Fidelity Comment Letter (noting that
(i) advisers may use various forms of technology to
communicate with clients, including web chats or
videos and (ii) further limiting the exclusion
‘‘would capture routine communications between
advisers and their clients merely because of the
medium in which they are being conducted.’’);
SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II (arguing that it is
not clear how to define communications that are
broadcast and widely disseminated versus those
that are not).
113See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II;
Consumer Federation Comment Letter.
114See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II;
Fidelity Comment Letter.
115Final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(i)(B). As with the
exclusion for extemporaneous, live, oral
communications, the exclusion for regulatory
notices will apply regardless of whether the notice
includes a discussion of hypothetical performance.
116Proposed rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(iv).
117See, e.g., Mercer Comment Letter; NRS
Comment Letter.
118See, e.g., Comment Letter of Ropes & Gray LLP
(Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Ropes & Gray Comment Letter’’);
(noting that the proposal raises questions as to what
information is required in Commission filings,
especially for publicly traded advisers); Comment
Letter of BlackRock, Inc. (Feb. 10, 2020)
(‘‘BlackRock Comment Letter’’) (same); SIFMA
AMG Comment Letter II (noting that advisers are
already subject to legal duties and potential liability
for information included in regulatory filings
making it unlikely that advisers would include
excess information in such filings).
119See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(i)(B).
120See Form CRS Relationship Summary;
Amendments to Form ADV, Release No. IA–5247
(June 5, 2019) [88 FR 33573 (July 12, 2019)] (‘‘Form
remarks are extemporaneous, they
cannot be simultaneously monitored for
regulatory compliance, and to require
otherwise may simply cause advisers to
cease extemporaneous speech to the
overall detriment of investors. However,
we believe that communications
prepared in advance can and should be
subject to the rule. Accordingly, the
final exclusion will apply only to
extemporaneous, live, oral
communications.107
Extemporaneous communications do
not include prepared remarks or
speeches, such as those delivered from
scripts.108 In addition, slides or other
written materials that are distributed or
presented to the audience would also be
included as advertisements if they
otherwise meet the definition. On the
other hand, live, extemporaneous, oral
discussions with a group of investors or
interviews with the press that are not
based on prepared remarks will be
eligible for the exclusion. This approach
aligns with the purpose of the
exclusion, which is to avoid a chilling
effect on extemporaneous, oral speech
that might occur if such
communications were required to
comply with the requirements of the
final rule.
Some commenters recommended that
we further expand the exclusion to
apply to certain written
communications.109 While we
appreciate that other modern
communication methods facilitate
instantaneous written conversations
(e.g., text messages, chat), this exclusion
is limited to extemporaneous, live, oral
communications, because in those
circumstances a speaker often does not
have sufficient time to edit and reflect
on the content of the communication.110
Some commenters suggested that we
exclude all broadcast communications
and adopt an approach similar to
FINRA.111 Commenters also sought
guidance on the meaning of the
following terms: ‘‘broadcast’’ 112 and
‘‘widely disseminated.’’ 113 In response
to commenters’ concerns, we are not
adopting the requirement that the live,
oral communication is ‘‘not broadcast.’’
We believe the concerns that prompted
this exclusion apply equally to
extemporaneous, live, oral
communications regardless of whether
they are broadcast. We also believe that
the exclusion should not allow an
adviser to avoid application of the rule
for a previously prepared live, oral
communication in a non-broadcast
setting, such as a luncheon seminar
designed to attract new investors. In
addition, commenters raised a variety of
concerns with identifying whether a
communication is broadcast in light of
modern media tools, suggesting that line
drawing as to when a communication is
broadcast may be challenging in
practice.114 As a result, the exclusion
will apply to a broadcast
communication, such as a webcast, that
is an extemporaneous, live, oral
communication.
The exclusion will apply to ‘‘live’’
oral communications, as proposed.
Accordingly, previously recorded oral
communications disseminated by the
adviser would not qualify as live
because the adviser had time to review
and edit the recording before such
dissemination and thus can ensure
compliance with the marketing rule. In
these circumstances, an adviser would
need to treat its subsequent
dissemination of the recording as an
advertisement under the rule if the
recording offers the adviser’s investment
advisory services with regard to
securities. However, we believe that an
oral communication would be ‘‘live’’
even if there is a time lag (e.g.,
streaming delay), a translation program
is used, or adaptive technology is used
to create a personal transcription (e.g.,
voice to text technology or other tools
that assist the deaf, hard-of-hearing, or
hearing loss communities).
ii. Information Contained in a Statutory
or Regulatory Notice, Filing, or Other
Required Communication
The final rule excludes from the
definition of advertisement
‘‘[i]nformation contained in a statutory
or regulatory notice, filing, or other
required communication, provided that
such information is reasonably designed
to satisfy the requirements of such
notice, filing, or other required
communication.’’ 115 In response to
commenters, we have broadened the
proposed exclusion, which would have
applied to ‘‘[a]ny information required
to be contained in a statutory or
regulatory notice, filing, or other
communication.’’ 116 Commenters
generally supported the proposed
exclusion,117 but recommended we
expand it to ease compliance burdens
and avoid duplicative regulation that
would have resulted from applying
another layer of review to mandatory
filings.118
Specifically, commenters stated that
compliance personnel would have
difficulty determining exactly which
information contained in a regulatory
filing is strictly and explicitly required
by applicable law versus which
information is not (and would therefore
be subject to the rule). In response to
these comments, we broadened the
exclusion to cover information in a
statutory or regulatory, notice, filing or
other required communication,
provided the information is reasonably
designed to satisfy the requirements,
rather than information required to be
contained in such a communication.119
For example, information reasonably
designed to satisfy the requirements of
Form ADV Part 2 or Form CRS will not
be an advertisement.120
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13035 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
CRS Adopting Release’’) (noting that the
relationship summary is designed to serve as
disclosure, rather than marketing material).
121However, information that is required to be
provided or offered by the final rule will not qualify
for this exclusion. For example, final rule 206(4)–
1(d)(2) requires an adviser to provide performance
results over one-, five-, and ten-year periods. This
information is part of the advertisement and subject
to the rule.
122Final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(ii).
123See id. The definition of advertisement’s
second prong includes a testimonial or
endorsement for which an adviser directly or
indirectly provides de minimis compensation (as
defined below). However, these types of
testimonials and endorsements will be exempt from
some of the final rule’s prescribed conditions for
testimonials and endorsements. See infra section
II.C.5.
124Final rule 206(4)–1(e)(17)(i). We proposed to
define ‘‘testimonial’’ as ‘‘any statement of a client’s
or investor’s experience with the investment
adviser or its advisory affiliates, as defined in the
Form ADV Glossary of Terms.’’ See proposed rule
206(4)–1(e)(15).
125Final rule 206(4)–1(e)(5)(i). We proposed to
define ‘‘endorsement’’ as ‘‘any statement by a
person other than a client or investor indicating
approval, support, or recommendation of the
investment adviser or its advisory affiliates, as
defined in the Form ADV Glossary of Terms.’’ See
proposed rule 206(4)–1(e)(2). To align the
definitions of testimonial and endorsement better,
and address situations where an endorser who is
not a client nevertheless provides statements about
the endorser’s experience with the adviser, the final
definition of endorsement includes any statement
made by a non-investor that describes the
endorser’s experience with the adviser or its
supervised persons, like under the definition of
testimonial.
126Final rule 206(4)–1(e)(5)(i) and (17)(i). Under
the final rule, supervised person has the same
meaning as in section 2(a)(25) of the Act. Final rule
206(4)–1(e)(16). See also proposed rule 206(4)–
1(e)(2) and (15) (referring to advisory affiliates).
127See Pickard Djinis Comment Letter.
128See Comment Letter of William A. Jacobson,
Esq., Clinical Professor of Law, Cornell Law School,
and Director, Cornell Securities Law Clinic (Feb. 3,
2020) (‘‘Prof. Jacobson Comment Letter’’).
129See SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II.
130Complete or partial client lists that do no more
than identify certain of the adviser’s clients or
private fund investors will not be treated as
testimonials. See also 2019 Proposing Release,
supra footnote 7, at 78.
131See Dan Gallagher, Staff No-Action Letter
(pub. avail. July 10, 1995) (stating that the staff
could not assure that it would not recommend
enforcement action for a violation of rule 206(4)–
1 if the letter writer used client testimonials
describing its character and skills in relation to
matters other than the letter writer’s role as an
investment adviser). See also Guidance on the
Testimonial Rule and Social Media, Division of
Investment Management Guidance Update No.
2014–04 (Mar. 2014) (‘‘IM Staff Social Media
Guidance’’) (withdrawing staff position in the
Gallagher Staff No-Action Letter). See infra section
II.J.
132Final rule 206(4)–1(e)(5)(ii) and (iii), and
(e)(17)(ii) and (iii). See also proposed rule 206(4)–
3(c)(4) (proposing to define ‘‘solicitor’’ as ‘‘any
person who, directly or indirectly, solicits any
client or private fund investor for, or refers any
client or private fund investor to, an investment
adviser’’). Both the proposal’s definition of
‘‘solicitor’’ and the final rule’s inclusion of
solicitation and referral activities are drawn from
the current cash solicitation rule’s definition of
‘‘solicitor,’’ with the exception that the current rule
does not apply to solicitation of private fund
investors. See rule 206(4)–3(d)(1).
This exclusion will apply to
information that an adviser provides to
an investor under any statute or
regulation under Federal or state law,
including rules promulgated by
regulatory agencies. We generally do not
believe that communications that are
prepared as a requirement of statutes,
rules, or regulations should be viewed
as advertisements under the final
rule.121 However, if an adviser includes
in such a communication information
that is not reasonably designed to satisfy
its obligations under applicable law,
and such additional information offers
the adviser’s investment advisory
services with regard to securities, then
that information will be considered an
‘‘advertisement’’ for purposes of the
rule.
3. Definition of Advertisement:
Compensated Testimonials and
Endorsements, Including Solicitations
To reflect the merger of the two rules,
the final rule’s definition of
‘‘advertisement’’ includes a new second
prong that applies to ‘‘any endorsement
or testimonial for which an investment
adviser provides compensation, directly
or indirectly’’ subject to an exclusion for
certain regulatory notices, filings, and
other required communications.122 A
compensated testimonial or
endorsement will meet the definition of
advertisement’s second prong regardless
of whether the communication is made
orally or in writing, to one or more
persons.123 By contrast, an
uncompensated testimonial or
endorsement would have to meet the
elements of prong one in order to be
considered an ‘‘advertisement.’’
a. Definitions of Testimonial and
Endorsement
The final definition of testimonial
includes any statement by a current
client or private fund investor about the
client’s or private fund investor’s
experience with the investment adviser
or its supervised persons.124 The
definition of endorsement includes any
statement by a person other than a
current client or private fund investor
that indicates approval, support, or
recommendation of the investment
adviser or its supervised persons or
describes that person’s experience with
the investment adviser or its supervised
persons.125 This scope of how these
activities are defined is similar to the
proposal, with a few changes described
below, including adding solicitation and
referral activities drawn from the
proposed definition of solicitor.
These definitions include statements
about the adviser’s ‘‘supervised
persons,’’ rather than the proposed
inclusion of statements about the
adviser’s ‘‘advisory affiliates.’’ 126 One
commenter recommended this change,
stating that an endorsement or
testimonial regarding a supervised
person is more likely to provide relevant
information to an investor than a
statement about an adviser’s advisory
affiliate.127
We received a variety of comments
about the statements these definitions
would capture. One commenter
supported a broad approach that would
include statements about an adviser’s
traits, such as trustworthiness, to reflect
the commenter’s belief that prospective
clients typically select an adviser based
on emotion.128 Another commenter
requested that we limit the definitions
to include only statements that
explicitly discuss the adviser’s services
or capabilities as an adviser.129
Under the final marketing rule,
testimonials and endorsements will
include opinions or statements by
persons about the investment advisory
expertise or capabilities of the adviser or
its supervised persons.130 Testimonials
and endorsements also include
statements in an advertisement about an
adviser or its supervised person’s
qualities (e.g., trustworthiness,
diligence, or judgment) or expertise or
capabilities in other contexts, when the
statements suggest that the qualities,
capabilities, or expertise are relevant to
the advertised investment advisory
services. We believe that an investor
would likely perceive these statements
as relevant to the adviser’s investment
advisory services.131
The definitions of testimonial and
endorsement under the final rule also
include solicitation and referral
activities drawn from the proposed
definition of solicitor.132 After
considering comments on the
overlapping scope of testimonials,
endorsements, and solicitations under
the proposed advertising and
solicitation rules, we are adding
solicitation activities to the definitions
of testimonial and endorsement. The
definition of testimonial includes any
statement by a current client or private
fund investor that directly or indirectly
solicits any investor to be the adviser’s
client or a private fund investor, or
refers any investor to be the adviser’s
client or a private fund investor. The
definition of endorsement includes any
such statements by a person other than
a current client or private fund investor.
This change will address compensated
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13036 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
133See 2019 Proposing Release, supra footnote 7,
at section II.A.4 and II.B.2 and text accompanying
n.172.
134See id. at n.372. The proposed solicitation rule
would have applied to an adviser’s direct and
indirect compensation to a solicitor for any
solicitation activities. See proposed rule 206(4)–
3(a). The current cash solicitation rule also covers
direct and indirect cash compensation. See rule
206(4)–3(a). Similarly, our proposed advertising
rule would have required disclosure, if applicable,
that cash or non-cash compensation has been
provided by or on behalf of the adviser in
connection with obtaining or using the testimonial
or endorsement. See proposed rule 206(4)–
1(b)(1)(ii).
135See Consumer Federation Comment Letter;
Mercer Comment Letter.
136See MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I; MMI
Comment Letter (stating that the rule should not
apply to an adviser that sends a gift to a third-party
adviser or broker-dealer with which it routinely
does business, and such third party completely
unrelatedly refers a client to the adviser, unless the
third party has a reasonable expectation that it will
receive some form of compensation from the
adviser in exchange for that referral).
137See IAA Comment Letter (also recommending
that the rule exclude refer-a-friend programs that
involve a small amount of compensation per
referral). While the final marketing rule will apply
to all compensated refer-a-friend programs
(regardless of the form of compensation), we expect
that many advisers that engage in these programs
will fall under the de minimis exemption, and be
subject to fewer conditions than other compensated
testimonials and endorsements. See infra footnote
481.
138See SIFMA AMG Comment Letters I & III; FSI
Comment Letter.
139See infra section II.A.4.
140See 2019 Proposing Release, supra footnote 7,
at nn.357 and 358 and accompanying text
(discussing, for example, refer-a-friend programs).
141Advisers are currently required to disclose to
clients in the Form ADV brochure if they consider,
in selecting or recommending broker-dealers,
whether they or a related person receives client
referrals from a broker-dealer or third party. As
proposed, broker-dealers or dual registrants that
receive brokerage for solicitation of client accounts
in wrap fee programs that they do not sponsor will
be subject to the final marketing rule if they solicit
those clients to participate in the wrap fee program.
See 2019 Proposing Release, supra footnote 7, at
section II.B.2.
142Although commenters did not specifically
address to what extent compensation paid to an
adviser’s personnel, such as an employee, would
implicate the proposed solicitation rule, we are
clarifying that compensation for purposes of prong
two of the definition of advertisement will not
include regular salary or bonuses paid to an
adviser’s personnel for their investment advisory
activities or for clerical, administrative, support or
similar functions.
143See, e.g., MMI Comment Letter; MFA/AIMA
Comment Letter I (discussing training for certain
fund-of-funds arrangements); SIFMA AMG
Comment Letter III (encouraging the Commission to
draw from a FINRA 2016 proposal relating to non
cash compensation, which the commenter states
includes conditions such as prior approval,
attendance not being preconditioned on the
achievement of certain sales targets, appropriate
location (whether an office or other facility) and no
payment for additional guests).
144See 2019 Proposing Release, supra footnote 7,
at n.360.
145See SIFMA AMG Comment Letters I & III
(requesting alignment with FINRA’s 2016 non-cash
compensation rule proposal); FSI Comment Letter.
146See, e.g., Regulation Best Interest, Release No.
34–86031 (June 5, 2019) [84 FR at 33400 (July 12,
2019)] (‘‘Regulation Best Interest Release’’)
(adopting rule 15l–1 under the Exchange Act,
testimonials and endorsements under
one rule with one set of conditions. For
example, a person providing an
endorsement or testimonial under the
final rule might be a firm that solicits for
an adviser (such as a broker-dealer or a
bank), an individual at a soliciting firm
who engages in solicitation activities for
an adviser (such as a bank
representative or an individual
registered representative of a broker
dealer), or both. Other examples could
be an unaffiliated fund-of-funds or a
feeder fund that solicits investors in an
underlying fund or a master fund,
respectively.
b. Cash and Non-Cash Compensation
The second prong of the final
marketing rule’s definition of
advertisement is triggered by any form
of compensation—whether cash or non
cash—that an adviser provides, directly
or indirectly, for an endorsement or
testimonial. This mirrors the types of
compensation that we stated would
trigger the proposed solicitation rule
and the proposed advertising rule’s
compensation disclosure requirement in
connection with a testimonial,
endorsement, or third-party rating.133
As we stated about both proposed rules,
compensation an adviser provides,
directly or indirectly, for these activities
can incentivize a person to provide a
positive statement about, solicit an
investor for, or refer an investor to, the
investment adviser.134 Therefore, we
believe that the marketing rule’s
protections should apply.
Some commenters agreed that non
cash compensation creates the same
conflicts of interest as cash
compensation for solicitation.135 These
commenters also agreed that investors
should be made aware of the solicitor’s
conflict of interest regardless of the form
of compensation. Other commenters,
however, raised concerns about
extending the rule to cover certain forms
of non-cash compensation, such as gifts
and entertainment,136 or non
transferable advisory fee waivers in
connection with refer-a-friend
arrangements.137 Some commenters
argued that the final rule should only
apply to solicitations for which the
adviser provides incentive-based
compensation tied to the funding of an
advisory account and the solicitation
activities are directed at specific
clients.138 Commenters generally
opposed applying the proposed
solicitation rule to communications to
investors in private funds, which we
address below.139
Forms of compensation under the
final marketing rule will include fees
based on a percentage of assets under
management or amounts invested, flat
fees, retainers, hourly fees, reduced
advisory fees, fee waivers, and any other
methods of cash compensation, and
cash or non-cash rewards that advisers
provide for endorsements and
testimonials, including referral and
solicitation activities.140 They also
include directed brokerage that
compensates brokers for soliciting
investors,141 sales awards or other
prizes, gifts and entertainment, such as
outings, tours, or other forms of
entertainment that an adviser provides
as compensation for testimonials and
endorsements. In addition, compensated
endorsements and testimonials may or
may not be contingent on the
endorsement or testimonial resulting in
a new advisory relationship or a new
investment in a private fund. We believe
that non-cash compensation, including
forms of entertainment, can incentivize
persons to provide a positive statement
about an adviser, or make a referral or
solicitation on an adviser’s behalf and
should be included in the rule to make
clients aware of such incentive.
Whether an adviser provides cash or
non-cash compensation in exchange for
a testimonial or endorsement depends
on the particular facts and
circumstances.142
Some commenters requested that we
exclude training or meetings that
educate solicitors about the adviser’s
services, even if there are some
incidental benefits associated with such
training.143 We continue to believe, as
we stated in the 2019 Proposing Release,
that attendance at training and
education meetings, including
company-sponsored meetings such as
annual conferences, will not be non
cash compensation, provided that
attendance at these meetings or
trainings is not provided in exchange for
solicitation activities.144
Some commenters also raised
concerns about potentially conflicting
regulations for advisers dually
registered as broker-dealers with respect
to the inclusion of sales awards as non
cash compensation under the proposed
solicitation rule.145 While we
acknowledge that other Commission
rules for broker-dealers address
concerns underlying non-cash
compensation in the context of
recommendations, the final marketing
rule covers a broader range of activities
and types of promoters.146 Thus, we do
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13037 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
requiring broker-dealers to establish written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to
identify and eliminate any sales contests, sales
quotas, bonuses, and non-cash compensation that
are based on the sale of specific securities or the
sale of specific types of securities within a limited
period of time, noting that these compensation
practices create high-pressure situations for
associated persons to increase the sales of specific
securities or specific types of securities within a
limited period of time and thus compromise the
best interests of their retail customers). The policies
and procedures required thereunder must also be
reasonably designed to identify and mitigate any
conflicts of interest associated with the broker
dealer’s recommendations to retail customers that
create an incentive for the broker-dealer’s
associated persons to place their interest or the
interest of the broker-dealer ahead of the retail
customer’s interest. Id.
147See id. Regulation BI defines a retail customer
as a ‘‘natural person, or the legal representative of
such natural person.’’ See id., at 768.
148See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I;
Fidelity Comment Letter; Fried Frank Comment
Letter; IAA Comment Letter; Mercer Comment
Letter; SIFMA AMG Comment Letter I.
149See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letters I & III;
FSI Comment Letter.
150See SIFMA AMG Comment Letter III.
151See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I;
Mercer Comment Letter.
152We would expect that, where required, the
written agreement would be evidence of such a
mutual understanding in most circumstances. See
infra section II.C.3.
153For example, an adviser will be subject to the
rule’s provisions for compensated testimonials and
endorsements when the adviser’s parent company
pays a third party to endorse the adviser to the third
party’s network of members that are prospective
clients. See final rule 206(4)–1(b). Such indirect
compensation could include the adviser’s parent
company providing representatives to the third
party and compensating them to promote the
adviser’s business.
154See, e.g., FSI Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG
Comment Letter I; MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I;
Fried Frank Comment Letter; IAA Comment Letter.
155See Commonwealth Comment Letter. This
commenter stated that such operators typically offer
to ‘‘match’’ an investor with an adviser. When an
investor clicks on a link, the investor provides
information to the operator (e.g., age, investable
assets, and goals) and the operator matches the
investor to one or more advisers participating in the
service. Advisers generally pay a flat fee and/or a
per-lead fee to receive matches of potential
investors from the operator.
156See MMI Comment Letter (stating that in some
cases, the operator charges an administrative or
service fee to the investment advisers whose
products and services are accessible through the
operator).
157See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(5)(ii) and (iii) and
(17)(ii) and (iii).
158See final rule 206(4)–1(5)(i) and (17)(i).
159See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(ii).
not believe that an exemption for sales
awards or contests from the final
marketing rule would be appropriate on
these grounds. As discussed further
below, however, we are adopting a
partial exemption for broker-dealers
from the rule’s disqualification
provisions. We are also adopting partial
exemptions from the disclosure
provisions when a broker-dealer
provides a testimonial or endorsement
to a retail customer that is a
recommendation subject to Regulation
Best Interest (‘‘Regulation BI’’) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
‘‘Exchange Act’’) and from certain
disclosure requirements when a broker
dealer provides a testimonial or
endorsement to a person that is not a
retail customer (as that term is defined
in Regulation BI).147
Other commenters stated non-cash
compensation could capture benefits
that advisers provide in the ordinary
course of business unrelated to any
solicitation activity.148 Relatedly, some
commenters considered our proposed
view of ‘‘indirect’’ compensation overly
broad, particularly with respect to non
cash compensation.149 These
commenters recommended that we
apply the final rule only to
compensation an adviser provides to a
solicitor after its solicitation activities,
unless the solicitation agreement
between the adviser and solicitor
specifically includes compensation
provided prior to the solicitation; or
replace the solicitation rule’s reference
to compensation that an adviser
provides ‘‘indirectly’’ with
compensation that is direct or ‘‘in
connection with solicitation
activities.’’ 150 Others expressed
concerns that, under our proposed
solicitation rule, every mutually
beneficial arrangement between an
investment adviser and a potential
facilitator of client relationships would
be subject to scrutiny for indicia of quid
pro quo solicitation.151
We believe the timing of
compensation relative to an
endorsement or testimonial is relevant
in determining whether an adviser is
providing compensation for the
testimonial or endorsement. In addition,
we believe that there will be a mutual
understanding of a quid pro quo,
whether explicit or inferred based on
facts and circumstances, for most
compensated endorsements or
testimonials.152 However, we decline to
draw bright lines around either the
timing of the compensation or the
establishment of a mutual
understanding. We believe such bright
lines would unnecessarily limit the final
rule and would encourage advisers to
structure their arrangements to avoid
application of the rule in situations
where it would otherwise apply. In
addition, we believe that in many cases
compensation will be in connection
with testimonials and endorsements.
We decline to remove the word
‘‘indirectly’’ from the rule for the same
reasons discussed above.153
c. Activities That Constitute a
Testimonial or Endorsement
Some commenters requested guidance
on whether certain activities would
constitute solicitation or referral
activities under the proposed
amendments to the solicitation rule.154
Since the combined marketing rule
includes statements that solicit
investors for, or refer investors to, an
investment adviser as testimonials or
endorsements, we are addressing these
comments in the context of these
definitions.
For example, some commenters
questioned whether lead-generation
firms or adviser referral networks
(collectively, ‘‘operators’’) would fall
into the scope of the rule. One
commenter described these operators as
networks operated by non-investors
where an adviser compensates the
operator to solicit investors for, or refer
investors to, the adviser.155 Another
commenter described these operators as
for-profit or non-profit entities that
make third-party advisory services (such
as model portfolio providers) accessible
to investors, and stated that the
operators do not promote or recommend
particular services or products
accessible on the platform.156 In both
examples, the operator’s website likely
meets the final marketing rule’s
definition of endorsement. An operator
may tout the advisers included in its
network, and/or guarantee that the
advisers meet the network’s eligibility
criteria. In addition, because operators
typically offer to ‘‘match’’ an investor
with one or more advisers compensating
it to participate in the service, operators
typically engage in solicitation or
referral activities.157
Similarly, a blogger’s website review
of an adviser’s advisory service would
be a testimonial or an endorsement
under the final marketing rule because
it indicates approval, support, or a
recommendation of the investment
adviser, or because it describes its
experience with the adviser.158 If the
adviser directly or indirectly
compensates the blogger for its review,
for example by paying the blogger based
on the amount of assets deposited in
new accounts from client referrals or the
number of accounts opened, the
testimonial or endorsement will be an
advertisement under the definition’s
second prong.159 Depending on the facts
and circumstances, a lawyer or other
service provider that refers an investor
to an adviser, even infrequently, may
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13038 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
160However, such a communication would be an
advertisement under the first prong of the definition
of ‘‘advertisement.’’ See supra section II.A.2.
161See Nesler Comment Letter.
162See IAA Comment Letter (alternately
requesting, in the absence of an exclusion,
clarification as to status under the proposed
solicitation rule). This commenter stated that these
agents facilitate submissions by investment advisers
in the RFP process and prepare reports for
prospective investors regarding investment advisers
under consideration. Furthermore, in many cases
the adviser must enter into an agreement with the
agent to participate in the RFP process.
163We understand that the consultant is typically
not an advisory client of the advisers it selects to
participate in the RFP process, and therefore the
final rule’s testimonial provision would usually not
apply.
164Though a quid pro quo is not always
determinative of whether the compensation element
of this prong of the definition of advertisement is
satisfied, these facts suggest a lack of quid pro quo
and, without more, would not implicate the second
prong of the definition. The adviser in this scenario
will likely also not implicate the first prong of the
definition of advertisement because the adviser is
not making a direct or indirect communication to
more than one person that offers the investment
adviser’s investment advisory services with regard
to securities to investors. See final rule 206(4)–
1(e)(1)(i). See also supra section II.A.2.
165See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(ii).
166See Credit Suisse Comment Letter (citing the
‘‘robust regulatory framework’’ already applicable
to SEC-registered broker-dealers); MFA/AIMA
Comment Letter I.
167See infra section II.C.5. 168See id. 169See 2019 Proposing Release, supra footnote 7,
at n.346. Two commenters argued that, as a matter
of statutory interpretation, solicitors fall within the
Act’s definition of ‘‘person associated with an
investment adviser.’’ See SIFMA AMG Comment
Letter II; Credit Suisse Comment Letter. 170 Depending on the facts and circumstances, a
promoter may also be acting as an investment
adviser under applicable state law. 171Commission staff previously stated that a
person providing advice to a client as to the
selection or retention of an investment manager or
managers also, under certain circumstances, would
be deemed to be ‘‘advising’’ others within the
meaning of section 202(a)(11) of the Act. See
Applicability of the Investment Advisers Act to
Financial Planners, Pension Consultants, and Other
Persons Who Provide Investment Advisory Services
as a Component of Other Financial Services,
Release No. IA–1092 (Oct. 8, 1987) [52 FR 38400
(Oct. 16, 1987)], at footnote 6 and accompanying
text. However, solicitation of clients may not
involve providing investment advice on behalf of an
adviser. See Release 1633, supra footnote 4, at text
accompanying n.123. See also Commission
Interpretation Regarding the Solely Incidental Prong
of the Broker-Dealer Exclusion to the Definition of
Investment Adviser, Release No. IA–5249 (June 5,
2019) [84 FR 33669 (July 12, 2019)].
also meet the rule’s definition of
testimonial or endorsement.
On the other hand, where an adviser
pays a third-party marketing service or
news publication to prepare content for
and/or disseminate a communication,
we generally would not treat this
communication as an endorsement
under the second prong of the definition
of ‘‘advertisement.’’ 160 Similarly, a non
investor selling an adviser a list
containing the names and contact
information of prospective investors
typically would not, without more, meet
the definition of endorsement.161 This
activity typically would not fall within
the plain text of the definition of
endorsement (e.g., the seller does not
indicate approval, support, or
recommendation of the investment
adviser, or describe its experience with
the adviser, or engage in the solicitation
or referral activities described therein).
One commenter requested an
exclusion from the definition of solicitor
under the proposed solicitation rule for
an investment consultant that
administers a RFP to aid one or more
investors in selecting an investment
adviser or a private fund investment
vehicle.162 The commenter stated that
the investor typically hires the
consultant (the ‘‘agent’’), subject to the
understanding that the investor will
only enter into a transaction with an
investment adviser that agrees to pay
the expenses of the agent for providing
this service.163 In these circumstances,
we do not believe the adviser typically
compensates the agent to endorse the
adviser because the investor engages the
agent to evaluate the adviser based on
criteria that the investor provides.164
d. Exclusion for Regulatory
Communications; Inclusion of One-on
One and Extemporaneous, Live, Oral
Communications
The second prong of the definition of
advertisement excludes any information
contained in a statutory or regulatory
notice, filing, or other required
communication, provided that such
information is reasonably designed to
satisfy the requirements of such notice,
filing, or other required
communication.165 As with the same
exclusion in the first prong of the
definition, this exclusion reflects our
belief that communications that are
prepared as a requirement of statutes,
rules, or regulations should not be
viewed as advertisements under the
rule.
Unlike the first prong of the definition
of advertisement, however, this prong
does not exclude extemporaneous, live,
oral communications or one-on-one
communications. These types of
communications are precisely what the
second prong of the definition seeks to
address, along with other types of
endorsement and testimonial activities.
The current solicitation rule has also
addressed these types of
communications. In addition, the
second prong does not exclude
communications that include
hypothetical performance information.
Compensated testimonials and
endorsements have the potential to
mislead given a promoter’s financial
incentive to recommend the adviser.
Without appropriate safeguards, a
compensated testimonial or
endorsement creates a risk that the
investor would mistakenly view the
promoter’s recommendation as being an
unbiased opinion about the adviser’s
ability to manage the investor’s assets
and would rely on that recommendation
more than the investor would if the
investor knew of the promoter’s
incentive.
Finally, some commenters requested
an exclusion from the proposed
solicitation rule for persons registered
with the Commission as broker-dealers
under the Exchange Act.166 We continue
to believe that the final rule’s investor
protections should apply to
compensated endorsements and
testimonials by any person, including a
registered broker-dealer. However, we
are adopting a partial exemption from
the rule’s disqualification provisions for
certain compensated testimonials and
endorsements made by a registered
broker-dealer.167 We also are adopting a
partial exemption from the rule’s
disclosure provisions when a broker
dealer provides a testimonial or
endorsement to a retail customer that is
a recommendation subject to Regulation
BI.168
e. Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer
Status and Registration for Persons Who
Provide Endorsements or Testimonials
We proposed to withdraw our
position that a solicitor who engages in
solicitation activities in accordance with
paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of the cash
solicitation rule will be, at least with
respect to those activities, an associated
person of an investment adviser and
therefore will not be required to register
individually under the Advisers Act
solely as a result of those activities (the
‘‘1979 position’’).169 Although the 1979
position will no longer apply upon the
rescission of the current solicitation
rule, we are not adopting a similar
position with respect to endorsements
and testimonials under the final
marketing rule.
A promoter may, depending on the
facts and circumstances, be acting as an
investment adviser within the meaning
of section 202(a)(11) of the Act.170
Investment adviser status and
registration questions require analysis of
the applicable facts and circumstances,
including, for example, whether a
person is ‘‘advising’’ others within the
meaning of section 202(a)(11) of the
Act.171 A promoter also may be acting
as a broker or dealer within the meaning
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13039 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
172An adviser’s registration with the Commission
covers its supervised persons, provided that their
advisory activities are undertaken on the adviser’s
behalf.
173Most states impose registration, licensing, or
qualification requirements on investment adviser
representatives who have a place of business in the
state, regardless of whether the investment adviser
is registered with the Commission or the state. See
Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, Study on Investment Advisers and
Broker-Dealers As Required by Section 913 of the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (Jan. 2011), available at https://
www.sec.gov/news/studies/2011/913studyfinal.pdf,
at 86. See also rule 203A–3(a)(1) (definition of
‘‘investment adviser representative’’). In some
states, a third-party solicitor will be subject to state
qualification requirements to the extent state
investment adviser statutes apply to solicitors. See
Release 1633, supra footnote 4, at text
accompanying n.125.
174See Nesler Comment Letter (arguing that an
SEC-registered adviser should be entitled to treat a
non-employee solicitor as an ‘‘associated person’’ as
long as the adviser exercises control and
supervision over such solicitor in connection with
the performance of its solicitation activities).
175See Pickard Djinis Comment Letter (describing
that solicitors that perform paid unscripted media
campaigns on behalf of advisers, may not be under
the adviser’s control). Such a paid solicitor may not
be a ‘‘person associated with the investment
adviser,’’ depending on the facts and circumstances.
176See rule 204A–1(a) (requiring adviser codes of
ethics that, among other things, require supervised
persons to comply with applicable Federal
securities laws).
177See proposed rule 206(4)–3(c)(2).
178See proposed rule 206(4)–1(e)(9). See also
definition of ‘‘pooled investment vehicle’’ in rule
206(4)–8 under the Act.
179Commenters recommended that the final rule
exclude all communications to investors in RICs
and BDCs because the statutory anti-fraud
provisions and other Commission rules apply to
these communications. See, e.g., IAA Comment
Letter; Comment Letter of the European Fund and
Asset Management Association (Feb. 13, 2020)
(‘‘EFAMA Comment Letter’’) (suggesting that the
final rule also exclude non-U.S. funds that are
publicly offered (including UCITS)); ICI Comment
Letter (recommending that the Commission exclude
all registered fund communications from the scope
of the rule, including sales literature subject to rule
34b–1 under the Investment Company Act and
generic advertisements subject to rule 135a under
the Securities Act). Given the regulatory framework
applicable to communications to investors in RICs
and BDCs, we do not believe the additional
protections of the Advisers Act marketing rule are
necessary.
180See 2019 Proposing Release, supra footnote 7,
at section II.A.; proposed rule 206(4)–1(e)(9).
181See 2019 Proposing Release, supra footnote 7,
at section II.B.3.
182See Item 8 of Form N–1A. See also FINRA rule
2341(l)(4) (generally prohibiting member firms from
accepting any cash compensation from an
investment company, an adviser to an investment
company, a fund administrator, an underwriter or
any affiliated person (as defined in section 2(a)(3)
of the Investment Company Act) of such entities
unless such compensation is described in a current
prospectus of the investment company).
183See, e.g., AIC Comment Letter; MFA/AIMA
Comment Letter I; Comment Letter of the National
Venture Capital Association (Feb. 14, 2020)
(‘‘NVCA Comment Letter’’); IAA Comment Letter.
184See, e.g., AIC Comment Letter (citing rule
206(4)–1(a)(5) and rule 206(4)–8 under the Advisers
Act); NVCA Comment Letter (citing rule
156(b)(3)(ii) under the Securities Act).
185See, e.g., ILPA Comment Letter; SBIA
Comment Letter. See also Consumer Federation
Comment Letter; EFAMA Comment Letter
(supporting additional protections for investors in
pooled investment vehicles, but seeking an
exception for certain non-U.S. domiciled funds).
186Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act authorizes
the Commission to adopt rules and regulations that
‘‘define, and prescribe means reasonably designed
to prevent, such acts, practices, and courses of
business as are fraudulent, deceptive, or
manipulative.’’ 15 U.S.C. 80b–6(4). See rule 206(4)–
8(a)(1). We are adopting this rule under the same
authority of section 206(4) of the Advisers Act on
which we relied in adopting rule 206(4)–8. See
Prohibition of Fraud by Advisers to Certain Pooled
Investment Vehicles, Release No. IA–2628 (Aug. 3,
2007) [75 FR 44756 (Aug. 9, 2007)].
of section 3(a)(4) or 3(a)(5) of the
Exchange Act, for example, when
soliciting investors for, or referring
investors to, an adviser or a private fund
advised by the adviser. Any promoter
must determine whether it is subject to
statutory or regulatory requirements
under Federal law, including the
requirement to register as an investment
adviser pursuant to the Act and/or as a
broker-dealer pursuant to section 15(a)
of the Exchange Act, respectively. If the
promoter is a supervised person of the
adviser for which it is providing a
testimonial or endorsement, the
promoter does not need to separately
register with the Commission as an
investment adviser solely as a result of
his or her activities as a promoter.172 A
promoter also must determine whether
it is subject to certain state law and
certain FINRA rules, including any
applicable state licensing requirements
applicable to individuals.173 To be clear,
we are not making a presumption that
a person providing an endorsement or
testimonial meets the definition of
investment adviser or broker-dealer and
must register under the Act or the
Exchange Act, respectively. Nor are we
making a presumption that such person
may or may not be an associated person
of a registered investment adviser.
Indeed, we agree that some promoters
may meet the definition of associated
person of an investment adviser
depending on the facts and
circumstances.174 Others may not.175
Under the final marketing rule, if an
adviser determines that a person
providing an endorsement or
testimonial is an associated person, the
adviser should have requisite control of
such person.176
4. Investors in Private Funds
Both prongs of the definition of
‘‘advertisement’’ will expressly include
marketing communications to private
fund investors. The term ‘‘private fund’’
is defined in section 202(a)(29) of the
Advisers Act and means an issuer that
would be an investment company, as
defined in section 3 of the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (‘‘Investment
Company Act’’), but for section 3(c)(1)
or 3(c)(7) of that Act. This is consistent
with the scope of the proposed
amendments to the solicitation rule.177
We are not adopting the broader scope
of the proposed amendments to the
advertising rule, which generally would
have applied to advertisements sent to
investors in ‘‘pooled investment
vehicles,’’ as defined in rule 206(4)–8
under the Act.178 In connection with
these changes, we have eliminated the
need for the proposed exclusion for
advertisements, other sales materials,
and sales literature of registered
investment companies (‘‘RICs’’) and
business development companies
(‘‘BDCs’’) that are within the scope of
rule 482 or 156 under the Securities Act
of 1933 (‘‘Securities Act’’).179
Although we used different terms in
each proposal, the scope of the
proposals effectively would have
covered only certain communications to
private fund investors. In our
advertising rule proposal, we included
all pooled investment vehicles and then
excepted RIC or BDC advertisements
that were subject to rule 482 or 156
under the Securities Act.180 We did not
seek to apply the proposed solicitation
rule to promotional activity involving
RICs and BDCs because we believed that
the primary goal of the proposal was
already satisfied by other regulatory
requirements.181 Most notably,
prospective investors in RICs and BDCs
sold through a broker-dealer or other
financial intermediary already receive
disclosure about the conflicts of interest
that may be created due to the fund or
its related companies paying the
intermediary for the sale of its shares
and related services.182
Commenters generally opposed
applying the two rules to
communications to private fund
investors.183 They stated that existing,
general anti-fraud provisions provide
sufficient protection and any additional
regulation would be unnecessary and
duplicative.184 Other commenters
supported explicitly including private
funds in the scope of the rules, arguing
that doing so would provide important
protections to investors in these
funds.185
We recognize that rule 206(4)–8
prohibits advisers to private funds from
making misstatements or materially
misleading statements to investors in
those vehicles.186 An adviser’s general
anti-fraud obligations to investors in
private funds under rule 206(4)–8
parallel an adviser’s general anti-fraud
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13040 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
187For example, rule 206(4)–8 prohibits
investment advisers to pooled investment vehicles
from engaging in any act, practice, or course of
business that is fraudulent, deceptive, or
manipulative with respect to any investor or
prospective investor in the pooled investment
vehicle. The final rule will include more specific
provisions in the context of advertisements. See
final rule 206(4)–1(b) through (d). To the extent that
an advertising practice would violate a specific
restriction imposed by the final rule, rule 206(4)–
8 may already prohibit the practice.
188We recognize that a single investor could
invest in both private funds managed by the adviser
and other products (e.g., separately managed
accounts) managed by the adviser. The final rule
would ensure that advisers apply the same
principles-based framework across products and
services, which could reduce advisers’ compliance
burdens.
189See MFA/AIMA Comment Letter III. But see
supra footnotes 183–184.
190See SBIA Comment Letter; NRS Comment
Letter.
191These communications also are subject to
various statutory and regulatory anti-fraud
provisions, such as section 17(a) of the Securities
Act, section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and rule
10b–5 thereunder.
192See infra sections II.E. and II.G. See also NYC
Bar Comment Letter (discussing the administrative
and compliance burdens and costs associated with
applying the standards for Retail Advertisements
and Non-Retail Advertisements (each as defined
below) for private funds under the proposed
advertising rule).
193See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I; AIC
Comment Letter; Proskauer Comment Letter.
194PPMs are subject to the anti-fraud provisions
of the Federal securities laws. See also supra
footnote 88 (discussing an adviser’s fiduciary
duties). Whether particular information included in
a PPM constitutes an advertisement of the adviser
depends on the relevant facts and circumstances.
For example, if a PPM contained related
performance information of separate accounts the
adviser manages, that related performance
information is likely to constitute an advertisement.
195See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I; IAA
Comment Letter; ILPA Comment Letter (seeking
clarification that non-promotional material
contained in a data room would not be subject to
the rule).
196See, e.g., EFAMA Comment Letter (supporting
the Commission’s proposal to increase protections
to investors in collective investment schemes, but
recommending that the Commission exclude (i)
non-U.S. domiciled publicly offered, closed-end
and open-end investment funds, including UCITS,
and (ii) alternative investment funds and other non
U.S. domiciled funds that would be an investment
company, as defined in section 3 of the Investment
Company Act, but for sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of
that Act); ILPA Comment Letter (recommending
expanding to funds excluded from the definition of
investment company by reason of section 3(c)(5) or
3(c)(11) of the Investment Company Act).
197See Sidley Austin Comment Letter; see also
Registration Under the Advisers Act of Certain
Hedge Fund Advisers, Release No. IA–2333 (Dec. 2,
2004) [69 FR 72054, 72072 (Dec. 10, 2004)] (‘‘Hedge
Fund Adviser Release’’).
198See IAA Comment Letter; EFAMA Comment
Letter.
199See Exemptions for Advisers to Venture
Capital Funds, Private Fund Advisers With Less
Than $150 Million in Assets Under Management,
and Foreign Private Advisers, Release No. IA–3222
obligations to all clients and prospective
clients under section 206 of the Act.
Accordingly, although the final
marketing rule overlaps with the
prohibitions in rule 206(4)–8 in certain
circumstances, just as it overlaps with
section 206 with respect to an adviser’s
clients and prospective clients, we
believe it is important from an investor
protection standpoint to delineate these
obligations to all investors in the
advertising context and provide a
framework for an adviser’s
advertisements to comply with these
obligations.
By including marketing
communications to private fund
investors, the final rule will provide
more specificity (and certainty)
regarding what we believe to be untrue
or misleading statements that advisers
must avoid in their advertisements.187
The general prohibitions, for example,
will provide advisers with a principles
based framework to assess private fund
advertisements and will provide greater
clarity, compared to the anti-fraud
provisions of the Act, on marketing
practices that are likely misleading.188
This approach is consistent with some
commenters who stated that the
Commission should finalize rules in a
manner that provides guidance to
advisers on how to comply with a
principles-based approach without
creating overly prescriptive
requirements that can be difficult to
apply in practice.189
We understand that many private
fund advisers already consider the
current staff positions related to the
current advertising rule when preparing
their marketing communications.190 As
a result, we believe that our application
of the final rule to advertisements to
private fund investors would result in
limited additional regulatory or
compliance costs for many of these
advisers.
We also believe that the modifications
from the proposal will reduce potential
costs and alleviate commenters’
concerns regarding the application of
the final rule to an adviser’s
advertisements to private fund
investors. For example, the first prong of
the definition of advertisement will not
include one-on-one communications to
private fund investors or
communications with existing investors;
as such, those communications will be
subject to rule 206(4)–8 and not the
advertising rule.191 The first prong of
the definition of advertisement also
excludes live, oral, extemporaneous
communications. Further, we are not
adopting a requirement for an adviser to
pre-review all advertisements prior to
dissemination or requirements for retail
versus non-retail advertisements, as
discussed below.192 Collectively, we
believe these changes appropriately
scope advertisements that would be
subject to the rule.
Not all communications to private
fund investors would be advertisements
under the final rule. Most commenters
stated that private placement
memoranda (‘‘PPMs’’) should not be
treated as advertisements.193 We agree
that information included in a PPM
about the material terms, objectives, and
risks of a fund offering is not an
advertisement of the adviser.194 Private
fund account statements, transaction
reports, and other similar materials
delivered to existing private fund
investors, and presentations to existing
clients concerning the performance of
funds they have invested in (for
example, at annual meetings of limited
partners) also would not be considered
advertisements under the final rule.
However, pitch books or other materials
accompanying PPMs could fall within
the definition of an advertisement.
Some commenters sought clarification
that due diligence rooms and their
contents would not be considered
advertisements.195 While due diligence
rooms themselves are not
advertisements, it is possible that some
of the information they contain could
qualify as an advertisement if the
materials satisfy the requirements of the
advertisement definition.
Some commenters recommended
expanding the final rule to other types
of unregistered pooled investment
vehicles, and one commenter specified
which other types of unregistered
pooled investment vehicles should be
subject to the rule.196 While these
commenters generally supported the
idea of extending the scope of the rule,
they did not explain why. Accordingly,
we believe that the scope of the final
rule is appropriate at this time.
A commenter specifically sought
confirmation that the proposed rules
would not apply to an adviser whose
principal office and place of business is
outside the United States (offshore
adviser) with regard to any of its non
U.S. clients even if the non-U.S. client
is a fund with U.S. investors.197 This
commenter and others also asked the
Commission to clarify the application of
the proposals to communications with
non-U.S. investors in funds domiciled
outside of the United States.198 We have
previously stated, and continue to take
the position, that most of the
substantive provisions of the Advisers
Act do not apply with respect to the
non-U.S. clients (including funds) of a
registered offshore adviser.199 This
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13041 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
(June 22, 2011) [76 FR 39645 (July 6, 2011)] (Most
of the substantive provisions of the Advisers Act do
not apply to the non-U.S. clients of a non-U.S.
adviser registered with the Commission.); Hedge
Fund Adviser Release, supra footnote 197 (stating
that the following rules under the Advisers Act
would not apply to a registered offshore adviser,
assuming it has no U.S. clients: Compliance rule,
custody rule, and proxy voting rule and stating that
the Commission would not subject an offshore
adviser to the rules governing adviser advertising
[17 CFR 275.206(4)–1], or cash solicitations [17 CFR
275.206(4)–3] with respect to offshore clients);
American Bar Association, SEC Staff No-Action
Letter (Aug. 10, 2006) (confirming that the
substantive provisions of the Act do not apply to
offshore advisers with respect to those advisers’
offshore clients (including offshore funds) to the
extent described in those letters and the Hedge
Fund Adviser Release); IM Information Update No.
2017–03.
200See Hedge Fund Adviser Release, supra
footnote 197 (noting that U.S. investors in an
offshore fund generally would not expect the full
protection of the U.S. securities laws and that U.S.
investors may be precluded from an opportunity to
invest in an offshore fund if their participation
would result in full application of the Advisers Act
and rules thereunder, but that a registered offshore
adviser would be required to comply with the
Advisers Act and rules thereunder with respect to
any U.S. clients it may have).
201See, e.g., Hedge Fund Adviser Release supra
footnote 197.
202See SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 647 (D.C.
Cir. 1992). As we noted when we adopted rule
206(4)–8, the court in Steadman analogized section
206(4) of the Advisers Act to section 17(a)(3) of the
Securities Act, which the Supreme Court had held
did not require a finding of scienter (citing Aaron
v. SEC, 446 U.S. 680 (1980)). See also Steadman at
643, n.5. In discussing section 17(a)(3) and its lack
of a scienter requirement, the Steadman court
observed that, similarly, a violation of section
206(2) of the Advisers Act could rest on a finding
of simple negligence. See also Fiduciary
Interpretation, supra footnote 88, at n.20.
203See, e.g., Wellington Comment Letter; ILPA
Comment Letter; IAA Comment; NRS Comment
Letter; and NAPFA Comment Letter.
204See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I;
Comment Letter of Managed Funds Association and
Alternative Investment Management Association
(May 8, 2020) (‘‘MFA/AIMA Comment Letter II’’).
One commenter also argued that withdrawing the
SEC staff no-action letters would create confusion
and lack of guidance. NYC Bar Comment Letter
(citing, for example, Clover Capital Mgmt., Inc., SEC
Staff No-Action Letter (Oct. 28, 1986) (‘‘Clover
Letter’’), Stalker Advisory Services, SEC Staff No
Action Letter (Jan. 18,1994) (Stalker Letter’’), F.
Eberstadt & Co., Inc., SEC Staff No-Action Letter
(July 2, 1978) (‘‘Eberstadt Letter’’), TCW Group, SEC
Staff No-Action Letter (Nov. 7, 2008) (‘‘TCW
Letter’’), and Franklin Management, Inc., SEC Staff
No-Action Letter (Dec. 10, 1998) (‘‘Franklin
Letter’’). However, we do not view the principles
of the general prohibitions to be substantive
departures from the positions in existing staff no
action letters and guidance.
205The nature of the audience would be relevant
if an adviser chooses to tailor the content of an
advertisement to a specific audience because the
content is not appropriate for a broader audience.
FINRA has a similar requirement under its General
Standards regarding Communications with the
Public. See FINRA rule 2210(d)(1)(E) (‘‘Members
must consider the nature of the audience to which
the communication will be directed and must
provide details and explanations appropriate to the
audience.’’).
206Final rule 206(4)–1(a)(1).
approach was designed to provide
appropriate flexibility where an adviser
has its principal office and place of
business outside of the United States.200
We believe it is appropriate to continue
to apply this approach in this context.
For an adviser whose principal office
and place of business is in the United
States (onshore adviser), the Advisers
Act and rules thereunder apply with
respect to the adviser’s U.S. and non
U.S. clients.201
B. General Prohibitions
We are adopting, largely as proposed,
the general prohibitions of certain
marketing practices as a means
reasonably designed to prevent
fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative
acts. We believe these practices are
associated with a significant risk of
being false or misleading. We therefore
believe it is in the public interest to
prohibit these practices, rather than
permit them subject to specified
conditions. The general prohibitions
will apply to all advertisements to the
extent that an adviser directly or
indirectly disseminates such
advertisement. Specifically, in any
advertisement, an adviser may not:
(1) Include any untrue statement of a
material fact, or omit to state a material
fact necessary in order to make the
statement made, in the light of the
circumstances under which it was
made, not misleading;
(2) Include a material statement of fact
that the adviser does not have a
reasonable basis for believing it will be
able to substantiate upon demand by the
Commission;
(3) Include information that would
reasonably be likely to cause an untrue
or misleading implication or inference
to be drawn concerning a material fact
relating to the investment adviser;
(4) Discuss any potential benefits to
clients or investors connected with or
resulting from the investment adviser’s
services or methods of operation
without providing fair and balanced
treatment of any material risks or
material limitations associated with the
potential benefits;
(5) Include a reference to specific
investment advice provided by the
investment adviser where such
investment advice is not presented in a
manner that is fair and balanced;
(6) Include or exclude performance
results, or present performance time
periods, in a manner that is not fair and
balanced; or
(7) Otherwise be materially
misleading.
As noted in the proposal, to establish
a violation of the rule, the Commission
will not need to demonstrate that an
investment adviser acted with scienter;
negligence is sufficient.202
Many commenters supported the
prohibitions’ principles-based
framework.203 However, other
commenters found the proposed general
prohibitions confusing and redundant
and suggested streamlining them into
fewer standards (or eliminating them
altogether) and relying on the general
anti-fraud standard instead.204 After
considering comments, we are making
certain modifications, as discussed
below. We continue to believe that
prohibiting certain marketing practices
is appropriate and that the final
provisions provide important
requirements for investment advisers
and protections for investors. In our
view, the general prohibitions provide
greater clarity on marketing practices
that are likely misleading compared to
just relying on the anti-fraud provisions
of the Act. We also believe that the
general prohibitions we are adopting
provide appropriate flexibility and
regulatory certainty for advisers
considering how to market their
investment advisory services.
In applying the general prohibitions,
an adviser should consider the facts and
circumstances of each advertisement.
The nature of the audience to which the
advertisement is directed is a key factor
in determining how the general
prohibitions should be applied.205 For
instance, the amount and type of
information that may need to be
included in an advertisement directed at
retail investors may differ from the
information that may need to be
included in an advertisement directed at
sophisticated institutional investors.
We discuss below each of the general
prohibitions and the comments we
received.
1. Untrue Statements and Omissions
As proposed, the final rule will
prohibit advertisements that include
any untrue statements of a material fact,
or that omit a material fact necessary in
order to make the statement made, in
the light of the circumstances under
which it was made, not misleading.206
One commenter argued that this
prohibition would be duplicative of
sections 206(1) and (2) of the Advisers
Act, which prohibit advisers from
‘‘employ[ing] any device, scheme or
artifice to defraud any client or
prospective client’’ and ‘‘engag[ing] in
any transaction, practice, or course of
business which operates as a fraud or
deceit upon any client or prospective
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13042 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
207NYC Bar Comment Letter. This commenter
also noted that section 206(4) prohibits investment
advisers from ‘‘engag[ing] in any act, practice, or
course of business which is fraudulent, deceptive,
or manipulative.’’
208While we acknowledge there may be
circumstances that are covered by both the anti
fraud prohibitions and this provision, we believe
that this provision helps provide specificity when
addressing an adviser’s marketing activities. In
addition, to the extent possible, this rule can serve
as a resource for identifying an adviser’s obligations
with respect to marketing generally, and thus we
believe that retaining this general prohibition will
serve to assist advisers in meeting their compliance
obligations.
209Current rule 206(4)–1(a)(5) prohibits an
advertisement that contains any untrue statement of
a material fact and uses similar wording as other
anti-fraud provisions in the Federal securities laws.
See, e.g., 17 CFR 240.10b–5; 15 U.S.C. 77q(a)(2); 17
CFR 230.156(a); rule 206(4)–8.
210When we use the phrase ‘‘false or misleading
statements’’ in this release, we are referring to this
general prohibition against advertisements that
include any untrue statements of a material fact, or
omissions of a material fact necessary in order to
make a statement, in the light of the circumstances
under which it was made, not misleading.
211Although one commenter stated that an
adviser should be required to show returns of an
appropriate benchmark for the same periods as
presented for the adviser’s performance, we do not
believe that it is necessary to prescribe such
disclosures and that such decisions should be left
at the discretion of the adviser, subject to the
general prohibitions of the final rule and the general
anti-fraud provisions of the Federal securities laws.
See CFA Institute Comment Letter. Accordingly, we
are not requiring the inclusion of a relevant index
or benchmark to avoid making any presentation of
performance misleading.
212See current rule 206(4)–1(a)(4); see also Dow
Theory Forecasts, Inc., SEC Staff No-Action Letter
(May 21, 1986) (‘‘Dow Theory Letter’’) (staff
declined to provide no-action recommendation
where an offer for ‘‘free’’ subscription was subject
to conditions). 213An adviser’s use of graphs, charts, or formulas
to represent, directly or indirectly, that such graphs,
charts, or formulas can in and of themselves be
used to determine which securities to buy or sell,
or when to buy or sell them, is explicitly prohibited
in the current rule. See current rule 206(4)–1(a)(3)
(also prohibiting an advertisement from
representing, directly or indirectly, that any graph,
chart, formula or other device being offered will
assist any person in making his own decisions as
to which securities to buy, sell, or when to buy or
sell them, without disclosing the limitations and
difficulties with respect to the use of such a graph,
chart, formula or other device).
214See proposed rule 206(4)–1(a)(2).
215See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I
(stating that this requirement would greatly increase
cost and operational burdens and curb the flow of
information to clients and investors); FPA Comment
Letter; NVCA Comment Letter; Fried Frank
Comment Letter.
216See MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I; Fried
Frank Comment Letter.
217See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I; FPA
Comment Letter; Fried Frank Comment Letter.
218For example, we would view performance
returns included in an advertisement to be material
statements of fact that an adviser would need a
reasonable basis for believing that it will be able to
substantiate. Because current rule 204–2(a)(16)
already requires the maintenance of records ‘‘to
support the basis for or demonstrate the calculation
of the performance or rate of return of any or all
managed accounts or securities recommendations
in any . . . advertisement,’’ we believe that any
recordkeeping burden related to performance
information included in an advertisement will not
be significantly new or altered. See current rule
204–2(a)(16). Final rule 204–2(a)(16) will similarly
require advisers to retain records or documents
necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the
calculation of the performance or rate of return of
any or all managed accounts, portfolio or securities
recommendations presented in any advertisement.
See final rule 204–2(a)(16).
219Final rule 206(4)–1(a)(2). Demand by the
Commission includes demand by the Commission’s
client.’’ 207 However, we view this
prohibition as complementary to, rather
than duplicative of, the statutory anti
fraud prohibitions cited by the
commenter.208 We continue to believe
that this prohibition, together with the
other general prohibitions under the
rule, is appropriately designed to
prevent fraud under the Act, specifically
in the context of marketing. Moreover,
this provision retains the substance of
current rule 206(4)–1(a)(5).209
As with similar anti-fraud provisions
in the Federal securities laws, whether
a statement is false or misleading
depends on the context in which the
statement or omission is made.210 For
example, as under the current rule,
advertising that an adviser’s
performance was positive during the
last fiscal year may be misleading if the
adviser omitted that an index or
benchmark consisting of a substantively
comparable portfolio of securities
experienced significantly higher returns
during the same period. To avoid
making a misleading statement, the
adviser in this example could include
the relevant index or benchmark or
otherwise disclose that the adviser’s
performance, although positive,
significantly underperformed the
market.211
Under the final rule, it would be
misleading for an adviser to compensate
a person to refer investors to the adviser
by stating that the person had a
‘‘positive experience’’ with the adviser
when such person is not a client or
private fund investor of the adviser for
its advisory services. To avoid making
such a statement misleading, the adviser
could disclose that the experience does
not relate to any advisory services. It
would also be misleading for an adviser
to use a promoter’s testimonial or
endorsement that the adviser knows or
reasonably should know to be
fraudulent, misleading, or untrue,
regardless of whether the adviser
compensates the promoter. For instance,
an adviser may not provide a
testimonial on its website where a client
falsely claims that the client has worked
with the adviser for over 20 years when
the adviser has only been in business for
five years.
The current rule contains an explicit
prohibition on advertisements that
contain statements to the effect that a
report, analysis, or other service will be
furnished free of charge, unless the
analysis or service is actually free and
without condition.212 We continue to
believe that this practice will be
captured by the final rule’s prohibition
on untrue statements or omissions. As a
result, the final rule will not contain
separate explicit prohibitions of such
statements. In addition, depending on
the disclosures provided and the extent
to which an adviser in fact does provide
investment advice solely based on such
materials, it may be false or misleading
under this provision to represent,
directly or indirectly, in an
advertisement that any graph, chart, or
formula can by itself be used to
determine which securities to buy or
sell.213
2. Unsubstantiated Material Statements
of Fact
The proposed rule would have
prohibited advertisements that include
any material claim or statement that is
unsubstantiated.214 Commenters argued
that the proposed ‘‘substantiation’’
requirement would be overly
burdensome.215 For example, two
commenters argued that it would
require advisers to obtain evidence to
support every claim or statement in an
advertisement out of uncertainty as to
what might be ‘‘material.’’ 216
Commenters also found the requirement
unclear, questioning whether, for
example, such a prohibition would
effectively foreclose any statements of
opinion.217 We are sensitive to
commenters’ concerns regarding the
burdens and lack of clarity of this
proposed provision. As a result, we are
making two changes to the requirement.
First, we are limiting the
substantiation requirement to matters of
material fact rather than any material
claim or statement. We do not believe
that this would be unduly burdensome
for advisers as such material statements
of fact, as opposed to opinions, should
be verifiable. For instance, material facts
might include a statement that each of
its portfolio managers holds a particular
certification or that it offers a certain
type or number of investment products.
Claims about performance would also
be statements about material facts.218
Conversely, statements that clearly
provide an opinion would not be
statements of material fact.
Second, we are requiring advisers to
have a reasonable basis to believe that
they can substantiate material claims of
fact upon demand by the
Commission.219 This change is designed
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13043 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
examiners or other representatives. The adviser’s
obligation to produce such materials on demand
will last as long as the relevant advertisement needs
to be retained under the recordkeeping rule. See
current rule 204–2(e)(1).
220See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I;
NVCA Comment Letter.
221Some advisers likely will (and some already
do) maintain records to substantiate non
performance material statements of fact included in
an advertisement when the advertisement is
created; however, this is not required as long as the
adviser has a reasonable basis for believing it will
be able to substantiate the information upon
demand by the Commission.
222See proposed rule 206(4)–1(a)(3).
223See Flexible Plan Investments Comment Letter
II.
224Final rule 206(4)–1(a)(3). An adviser’s
statements in an advertisement also are subject to
section 208(a) of the Act, which generally states that
it is unlawful for a registered investment adviser to
represent or imply that it has been sponsored,
recommended, or approved by any agency of the
United States. Section 208(b) of the Act generally
states that Section 208(a) shall not be construed to
prohibit a person from stating that he is registered
with the Commission as an investment adviser if
the statement is true and if the effect of his
registration is not misrepresented. Nevertheless, an
adviser’s use of the phrase ‘‘registered investment
adviser’’ (or the initials ‘‘RIA’’ or ‘‘R.I.A.’’) to state
or imply that it has a level of professional
competence, education or other special training
could be misleading under the final rule.
225CFA Institute Comment Letter.
226See, e.g., Clover Letter (stating the use of
performance results in an advertisement in the
staff’s view would be false or misleading if it
implies, or a reader would infer from it, something
about the adviser’s competence or about future
investment results that would not be true had the
advertisement included all material facts); Stalker
Letter (stating that copies of articles printed in
independent publications that contain performance
information of an adviser would be prohibited if
they implied false or misleading information absent
additional facts); Eberstadt Letter (stating that
advertisements could be misleading if they imply
positive facts about the adviser when additional
facts, if also provided, would cause the implication
not to arise).
227See In the Matter of Spear & Staff, Inc., Release
No. IA–188 (Mar. 25, 1965) (settled order) (the
Commission brought an enforcement action against
an investment adviser asserting, in part, that the
adviser’s advertisements, which recounted a
number of factually accurate stories highlighting the
outstanding investment success of certain selected
clients collectively created ‘‘illusory hopes of
immediate and substantial profit’’).
228See AIC Comment Letter (‘‘The Proposing
Release does not suggest how an adviser may
ascertain whether a testimonial is representative of
that adviser’s investors. Such a determination may
require that an adviser poll or survey a material
sample of its investors.’’); IAA Comment Letter;
SIFMA AMG Comment Letter I; Comment Letter of
Truth in Advertising, Inc. (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘TINA
Comment Letter’’).
229See SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II and IAA
Comment Letter.
230See, e.g., IAA Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG
Commenter Letter I.
to reduce burdens on advisers and allow
them to avoid the need to develop and
maintain a file of substantiating
materials for every advertisement.220
Advisers would be able to
demonstrate this reasonable belief in a
number of ways. For example, they
could make a record contemporaneous
with the advertisement demonstrating
the basis for their belief.221 An adviser
might also choose to implement policies
and procedures to address how this
requirement is met. However, if an
adviser is unable to substantiate the
material claims of fact made in an
advertisement when the Commission
demands it, we will presume that the
adviser did not have a reasonable basis
for its belief. We believe that the burden
on advisers to have a reasonable basis
for believing they will be able to
substantiate a material statement of fact
upon demand by the Commission is
justified by the importance of ensuring
that advisers do not advertise material
claims of fact that cannot be
substantiated and the need to facilitate
our staff’s examination of advisers.
3. Untrue or Misleading Implications or
Inferences
The proposed rule would have
prohibited any advertisement that
includes an untrue or misleading
implication about, or is reasonably
likely to cause an untrue or misleading
inference to be drawn concerning, a
material fact relating to an investment
adviser.222 After considering comments,
we are adopting this prohibition but
modifying it to add the reasonableness
standard to ‘‘implication,’’ and not only
to ‘‘inference.’’ 223 Accordingly, the final
rule will prohibit an adviser from
including, in any advertisement,
information that would reasonably be
likely to cause an untrue or misleading
implication or inference to be drawn
concerning a material fact relating to an
investment adviser.224
One commenter suggested eliminating
this prohibition altogether and instead
relying on the prohibition against
untrue statements or omissions, stating
that it is difficult to enforce when
something is ‘‘implied’’ or
‘‘inferred.’’ 225 However, we continue to
believe that this prohibition
appropriately addresses certain
activities that would not be subject to
the first prohibition, such as those
raised in previous staff no-action
letters.226 For example, this provision
will prohibit an adviser from making a
series of statements in an advertisement
that literally are true when read
individually, but whose overall effect is
reasonably likely to create an untrue or
misleading inference or implication
about the investment adviser.227 For
instance, if an adviser were to state
accurately in an advertisement that it
has ‘‘more than a hundred clients that
have stuck with me for more than ten
years,’’ we believe it may create a
misleading implication if the adviser
actually has a very high turnover rate of
clients. Additionally, this provision will
prohibit an adviser from stating that all
of its clients have seen profits, even if
true, without providing appropriate
disclosures if it only has two clients, as
it may be reasonably likely to cause a
misleading inference by potential
clients that they would have a high
chance of profit by hiring the adviser as
well.
Commenters requested more guidance
regarding when advertised testimonials
would comply with this general
prohibition.228 Two commenters argued
that it would effectively eliminate an
adviser’s ability to use testimonials if
advisers had to present negative
testimonials alongside positive ones,
particularly in the context of online and
social media platforms.229
We do not believe that the general
prohibition requires an adviser to
present an equal number of negative
testimonials alongside positive
testimonials in an advertisement, or
balance endorsements with negative
statements in order to avoid giving rise
to a misleading inference, as certain
commenters suggested.230 Rather, the
general prohibition requires the adviser
to consider the context and totality of
information presented such that it
would not reasonably be likely to cause
any misleading implication or inference.
General disclaimer language (e.g., ‘‘these
results may not be typical of all
investors’’) would not be sufficient to
overcome this general prohibition.
However, one approach that we believe
would generally be consistent with the
general prohibitions would be for an
adviser to include a disclaimer that the
testimonial provided was not
representative, and then provide a link
to, or other means of accessing (such as
oral directions to go to the relevant parts
of an adviser’s website), all or a
representative sample of the
testimonials about the adviser.
As discussed in further detail in
section II.B.5. below, we believe this
provision (along with the other
provisions discussed below) will
prohibit ‘‘cherry picking’’ of past
investments or investment strategies of
the adviser—that is, including favorable
results while omitting unfavorable ones
in a manner that is not fair and
balanced.
4. Failure To Provide Fair and Balanced
Treatment of Material Risks or Material
Limitations
The proposed rule would have
prohibited advertisements that discuss
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13044 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
231Proposed rule 206(4)–1(a)(4).
232See final rule 206(4)–1(a)(4).
233See, e.g., Ropes & Gray Comment Letter and
MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I.
234See MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I.
235CFA Institute Comment Letter.
236See, e.g., Fidelity Comment Letter; Ropes &
Gray Comment Letter; IAA Comment Letter;
Comment Letter of T. Rowe Price (Feb. 10, 2020)
(‘‘T. Rowe Price Comment Letter’’); LinkedIn
Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II.
237See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I;
LinkedIn Comment Letter; Ropes & Gray Comment
Letter.
238Final rule 206(4)–1(a)(4). For the sake of
clarity, the materiality standard will explicitly
apply to both the risks and the limitations.
239As we discussed in the proposal, this general
prohibition was drawn from FINRA rule 2210’s
general standards. See FINRA rule 2210(d)(1)(D).
The final rule’s use of ‘‘fair and balanced’’ is more
closely aligned with FINRA 2210, and accordingly,
we believe that advisers that are familiar with those
standards may be able to use that experience as a
guide in complying with this requirement.
240For example, if an adviser states that it will
reduce an investor’s taxes through its tax-loss
harvesting strategies, the adviser should also
discuss the associated material risks or material
limitations, including that any reduction in taxes
would depend on an investor’s tax situation.
241 In addition to hyperlinks, advisers may use
other tools to provide investors with layered
disclosure, including QR codes or mouse-over
windows.
242See CFA Institute Comment Letter.
243See rule 156(b)(3)(i); FINRA rule 2210(d)(1).
244See final rule 206(4)–1(a)(5).
or imply any potential benefits
connected with or resulting from the
investment adviser’s services or
methods of operation without clearly
and prominently discussing associated
material risks or other limitations
associated with the potential benefits.231
We are generally retaining this
requirement with some modifications in
response to comments.232
Some commenters suggested
eliminating this prohibition, arguing
that it is redundant since Form ADV
Part 2 already requires the disclosure of
material risks.233 Commenters also
expressed concern that this prohibition
would expand the amount of required
disclosures, dramatically lengthen
advertisements, and overwhelm the
content included in the
advertisement.234 One commenter
recommended removing ‘‘or imply’’
from this prohibition, stating that it
would be difficult for the Commission
staff to prove something is implied.235
Several commenters requested that the
Commission permit the use of
hyperlinks and layered disclosures to
satisfy the requirement that the
necessary disclosures be made ‘‘clearly
and prominently,’’ arguing that such an
approach would be consistent with the
Commission’s stated goal of
modernizing the advertising rule.236
Commenters also suggested that
requiring an adviser to include detailed
risk disclosures required under the
proposed general prohibition in a clear
and prominent manner may not be
feasible in certain formats without the
use of hyperlinks.237
In response to these concerns, we
have modified this provision to prohibit
advertisements that discuss any
potential benefits connected with or
resulting from the investment adviser’s
services or methods of operation
without providing fair and balanced
treatment of any material risks or
material limitations associated with the
potential benefits.238 We continue to
believe that advertisements should
provide an accurate portrayal of both
the risks and benefits of the adviser’s
services. However, as proposed, the
prohibition may have led advisers to
provide overly voluminous disclosure of
associated material risks, as well as
overly inclusive disclosure of ‘‘other
limitations.’’ We believe this could have
resulted in lengthy, boilerplate
disclosure that could reduce the
salience of the risk and limitation
information for investors.
Because we are requiring fair and
balanced treatment of material risks or
material limitations associated with the
benefits advertised, we no longer
believe the requirement to ‘‘clearly and
prominently’’ provide material risk
disclosures is necessary.239 The
proposed prohibition was designed to
mitigate the risk that an adviser’s
advertisement might discuss only the
benefits of its services but not include
sufficient information about the material
risks that the client may face. We
believe that the requirement to provide
benefits and material risks in a fair and
balanced manner similarly achieves this
goal. In addition, it will promote a more
digestible discussion for investors by
making clear that advisers need not
discuss every potential risk or limitation
in detail, but must instead discuss the
material risks and material limitations
associated with the benefits in a fair and
balanced manner.240
We expect that this approach will
help facilitate layered disclosure. For
example, an advertisement could
comply with this requirement by
identifying one benefit of an adviser’s
services, accompany the discussion of
the benefit with fair and balanced
treatment of material risks associated
with that benefit within the four corners
of that advertisement, and then include
a hyperlink 241 to additional content that
discusses additional benefits and
additional risks of the adviser’s services
in a fair and balanced manner. So long
as each layer of a layered advertisement
complies with the requirement to
provide benefits and risks in a fair and
balanced manner, providing hyperlinks
to additional content would meet the
requirement of this general prohibition.
However, an adviser should not use
layered disclosure or hyperlinks to
obscure important information. For
instance, it would not be sufficient to
advertise only an adviser’s past profits
on a web page and then include a
hyperlink to another page that included
all material risks and material
limitations as that would violate the fair
and balanced presentation requirement.
We are also removing the term
‘‘imply’’ from this general prohibition,
which a commenter found unclear.242
Removing the term imply will make this
provision more consistent with similar
requirements with which many advisers
are already familiar.243 In addition, we
believe that the other general
prohibitions (including the prohibition
on information that could cause a
misleading implication or inference to
be drawn), address the concerns that led
us to include the term imply in this
general prohibition at proposal.
We believe this prohibition differs in
scope from the disclosures required by
Form ADV. For example, Item 8 of Form
ADV Part 2A requires material risk
disclosures more specifically with
respect to investing in securities and
certain investment strategies and risks
involved. Moreover, an investment
adviser must provide its brochure
prepared in accordance with Form ADV
to its clients, but not to investors in
private funds it manages. The marketing
rule’s prohibition requires risk
disclosures related to any potential
benefits advertised to both clients and
private fund investors. We believe that
providing such disclosures in
advertisements is necessary in order to
avoid misleading potential investors as
well as existing investors in connection
with new services or investments.
5. Anti-Cherry Picking Provisions:
References to Specific Investment
Advice and Presentation of Performance
Results
The final rule contains, as proposed,
two other provisions designed to
address concerns about investment
advisers presenting potentially cherry
picked information in advertisements.
a. References to Specific Investment
Advice
As proposed, the final rule will
prohibit a reference in an advertisement
to specific investment advice that is not
presented in a fair and balanced
manner.244 Commenters supported
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13045 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
245See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I; IAA
Comment Letter; T. Rowe Price Comment Letter.
246NRS Comment Letter.
247See, e.g., ILPA Comment Letter (requesting
clarification in the context of private equity funds);
NASAA Comment Letter; Consumer Federation
Comment Letter.
248See MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I; T. Rowe
Price Comment Letter (noting that an adviser could
mention security selections in a fair and balanced
manner without complying with past staff
positions).
249See NASAA Comment Letter. The phrase ‘‘fair
and balanced’’ is used in FINRA rule 2210, which
requires, among other things, that broker-dealer
communications ‘‘must be fair and balanced and
must provide a sound basis for evaluating the facts
in regard to any particular security or type of
security, industry, or service.’’ See FINRA rule
2210(d)(1)(A).
250For selecting and presenting performance
information, these factors are in addition to the
requirements and restrictions on presentation of
performance discussed in section II.A.5. See final
rule 206(4)–1(c). In addition, other provisions of the
general prohibitions may prohibit a reference to
specific investment advice, depending on the facts
and circumstances. See 2019 Proposing Release,
supra footnote 7.
251As stated in the proposal, an adviser may
consider the current rule’s required disclosures
when furnishing a list of all past specific
recommendations made by the adviser within the
immediately preceding period of not less than one
year. See rule 206(4)–1(a)(2). However, the final
rule will not require that an adviser include such
disclosures, and such disclosures will not be the
only way of satisfying paragraph (a)(4).
252An investment adviser should be mindful of
the general prohibitions when selecting the
measurement periods as well.
253Our staff has previously stated that it would
not recommend enforcement action under rule
206(4)–1 relating to an advertisement that includes
performance-based past specific recommendations
based on certain representations, including that the
adviser would use objective, non-performance
based criteria to select the specific securities that it
lists and discusses in the advertisement. See
Franklin Letter. Although an adviser may find such
staff positions helpful in complying with the final
rule, the final rule does not include requirements
corresponding to the specific representations in the
Franklin letter.
254See AIC Comment Letter; ILPA Comment
Letter.
255See final rule 206(4)–1(d).
256See MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I; T. Rowe
Price Comment Letter.
257For example, our staff has stated that it would
not recommend enforcement action under the
Continued
replacing the current rule’s per se
prohibition against past specific
recommendations with this principles
based restriction on the presentation of
specific investment advice.245 One
commenter also supported the new fair
and balanced standard.246 However,
some commenters requested more
guidance on how to satisfy the fair and
balanced standard.247 Other
commenters requested clarification that
the principles from certain staff no
action letters would not be the sole
means to comply with the fair and
balanced standard.248 One commenter
asked whether we intend to incorporate
the body of judicial or administrative
decisions regarding FINRA rule 2210
and other similar provisions.249
We continue to believe this limitation
requiring advertisements to have only
fair and balanced inclusions of, or
references to, specific investment advice
is appropriate. The factors relevant to
when an advertisement’s presentation of
specific investment advice is fair and
balanced will vary depending on the
facts and circumstances. We provide
examples of such factors below to
illustrate the principles.250 While in
some cases advisers may wish to
consider FINRA’s interpretations related
to the meaning of ‘‘fair and balanced’’
for issues we have not specifically
addressed, FINRA Rule 2210 and its
body of decisions are not controlling or
authoritative interpretations with
respect to our final rule.
i. Examples Regarding the Presentation
of Past Specific Investment Advice
An advertisement that references
favorable or profitable past specific
investment advice without providing
sufficient information and context to
evaluate the merits of that advice is not
fair and balanced. For example, an
adviser may wish to share a ‘‘thought
piece’’ to describe the specific
investment advice it provided in
response to a major market event. This
would be permissible under the final
rule, provided the advertisement
included disclosures with appropriate
contextual information for investors to
evaluate those recommendations (e.g.,
the circumstances of the market event,
such as its nature and timing, and any
relevant investment constraints, such as
liquidity constraints, during that time).
One practice currently used by
advisers is to provide unfavorable or
unprofitable past specific investment
advice in addition to the favorable or
profitable advice.251 An adviser also
may consider listing some, or all, of the
specific investment advice of the same
type, kind, grade, or classification as
those specific investments presented in
the advertisement.
As an example, an investment adviser
might provide a list of certain
investments it recommended based
upon certain selection criteria, such as
the top holdings by value in a given
strategy at a given point in time. The
criteria investment advisers use to
determine such lists in an
advertisement, as well as how the
criteria are applied, should produce fair
and balanced results. We continue to
believe that consistent application of the
same selection criteria across
measurement periods limits an
investment adviser’s ability to reference
specific investment advice in a manner
that unfairly reflects only positive or
favorable results.252 For example, in
deciding what to include in an
advertisement, an adviser may wish to
apply non-performance related selection
criteria across portfolio holdings, such
as listing them on an alphabetical or
rotational basis.253
Some commenters questioned
whether this aspect of the final rule
would permit case studies, which are
popular in the private equity
industry.254 We believe that case studies
and any other similar information about
the performance of portfolio companies
are specific investment advice, subject
to this general prohibition. For example,
it would not be fair and balanced for an
adviser to present, in an advertisement,
case studies only reflecting profitable
investments (when there are also similar
unprofitable investments). To meet the
fair and balanced standard, an adviser
may, for example, disclose the overall
performance of the relevant investment
strategy or private fund for at least the
relevant period covered by the list of
investments. Case studies that include
performance information also will be
subject to the final rule’s restrictions
and requirements for performance
advertising.255
In determining how to present
information in a fair and balanced
manner, advisers should consider the
facts and circumstances of the
advertisement, including the nature and
sophistication of the audience. For
example, in an advertisement intended
for a retail investor, an adviser may
include certain disclosures to help the
investor understand that past specific
investment advice does not guarantee
future results such as an explanation of
the particular or unique circumstances
of the previous investment advice and
how those circumstances are no longer
relevant. Less detailed disclosure may
be needed in an advertisement solely for
sophisticated institutional investors,
who more likely understand the risks
associated with past specific investment
advice.
In response to the commenters who
asked for clarification that the methods
described in past staff no-action letters
on presenting past specific
recommendations would not be the only
way to meet the fair and balanced
standard,256 we are not prescribing any
of the factors in those letters under the
final rule. While advisers may wish to
refer to these letters for examples, we
agree with commenters that an adviser
may satisfy the fair and balanced
standard in other ways.257
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13046 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
current rule with respect to charts in an
advertisement containing an adviser’s best and
worst performers in certain circumstances. See the
TCW Letter. Our staff has also stated that it would
not recommend enforcement action under current
rule 206(4)–1 relating to an advertisement that
includes performance-based past specific
recommendations if the adviser uses objective, non
performance based criteria to select the specific
securities that it lists and discusses in the
advertisement in certain circumstances. See
Franklin Letter.
258We understand there has been confusion
under the current advertising rule’s prohibition
against past specific ‘‘recommendations’’ as to
whether an adviser makes a ‘‘recommendation’’
when it implements its strategy in a discretionary
account because an adviser would not contact its
client to make a recommendation that the client
then either chooses to implement or decline. We
believe an adviser’s recommendation, or investment
advice, is implicit in the exercise of discretion.
259See final rule 206(4)–1(a)(6).
260See Ropes & Gray Comment Letter.
261Consumer Federation Comment Letter;
NASAA Comment Letter.
262CFA Institute Comment Letter; Ropes & Gray
Comment Letter; NASAA Comment Letter; ILPA
Comment Letter.
263An advertisement that includes only favorable
performance results or excludes only unfavorable
performance results may also be ‘‘misleading’’ to
the extent that such an advertisement would
reasonably be likely to cause an untrue or
misleading implication or inference to be drawn
concerning the investment adviser that would not
be implied or inferred were certain additional
facts—i.e., any performance results excluded from
the advertisement—disclosed. See final rule 206(4)–
1(a)(3).
264See Amendments to Investment Company
Advertising Rules, Release No. IC–26195 (Oct. 3,
2003) [68 FR 57760 (Oct. 6, 2003)].
265Final rule 206(4)–1(a)(7).
266See final rule 206(4)–1(a)(1).
267Statements made by an adviser that would be
prohibited under the final rule’s general
prohibitions of certain marketing practices would
also be prohibited in an adviser’s advertisement if
made by a third party in a covered testimonial or
endorsement. For example, as we stated in the
Proposing Release, we would generally view an
advertisement as unlikely to be presented in a
manner that is fair and balanced if it contains a
testimonial, endorsement, or third-party rating that
references performance information or specific
investment advice provided by the adviser that was
profitable but is not representative of the experience
of the adviser’s investors. 2019 Proposing Release,
supra footnote 7, at section II.A.2.e.
268Final rule 206(4)–1(b).
269See, e.g., Consumer Federation Comment
Letter; IAA Comment Letter; LinkedIn Comment
Letter; Fidelity Comment Letter; TINA Comment
Letter.
The final rule applies to any reference
in an advertisement to specific
investment advice given by the
investment adviser, regardless of
whether the investment advice is
current or occurred in the past. This
provision will apply regardless of
whether the advice was acted upon, or
reflected actual portfolio holdings, or
was profitable. In addition, the
provision applies to discretionary
investments because the adviser is
implementing its recommendation or
advice in such a context.258 We
continue to believe that including
current as well as past references to
specific investment advice in the final
rule is appropriate because it avoids
questions about when a current
recommendation becomes past, which
arise under the current advertising rule.
In addition, we continue to believe that
selective references to current
investment recommendations in
advertisements could mislead investors
in the same manner as selective
references to past recommendations.
b. Presentation of Performance Results
As proposed, the final rule will
prohibit an investment adviser from
including or excluding performance
results, or presenting performance time
periods, in a manner that is not fair and
balanced in an advertisement.259 One
commenter supported the proposed
prohibition,260 while two others argued
that the fair and balanced standard is
subjective and difficult to enforce in this
context.261 Some commenters requested
more guidance by way of example to
demonstrate how performance
advertising could comply with the fair
and balanced standard.262
We continue to believe that this
prohibition appropriately addresses the
concern that an adviser may ‘‘cherry
pick’’ the periods used to generate
performance results in
advertisements.263 As with specific
investment advice, the factors that are
relevant to whether an advertisement’s
reference to performance information is
presented in a fair and balanced manner
will vary based on the facts and
circumstances. For example, presenting
performance results over a very short
period of time (e.g., two months), or
over inconsistent periods of time, may
result in performance portrayals that are
not reflective of the adviser’s general
results and thus generally would not be
fair and balanced. Additionally, an
advertisement that highlights one period
of extraordinary performance with only
a footnote disclosure of unusual
circumstances that have contributed to
such performance may not be fair and
balanced, depending on whether there
are other sufficient clear and prominent
disclosures, as discussed below.264
In cases where additional information
is necessary for an investor to assess
performance results, failure to provide
such information in an advertisement is
not consistent with the fair and
balanced standard. For example, in
order to provide investors with a fair
and balanced portrayal of its
performance results, an adviser should
consider providing information related
to the state of the market at the time,
any unusual circumstances, and other
material factors that contributed to such
performance. In section II.E, we discuss
further specific requirements and
conditions for portrayals of certain types
of performance in advertisements that
we are also adopting as part of this final
rule.
6. Otherwise Materially Misleading
Finally, we are adopting a catch-all
provision, as proposed, that will
prohibit any advertisement that is
otherwise materially misleading.265 We
did not receive any comments on this
catch-all provision. We continue to
believe this prohibition will help ensure
that materially misleading practices not
specifically covered by the other
prohibitions will be addressed. For
example, if an adviser provided accurate
disclosures, but presented them in an
unreadable font, such an advertisement
would be materially misleading and
prohibited under this provision.
Because we are prohibiting a variety
of specific types of advertisement
practices within the general
prohibitions, most of which include an
element of materiality, as discussed
above, we are focusing the catch-all
provision on only those advertisements
that are otherwise materially
misleading. We continue to believe that
limiting the catch-all to materially
misleading advertisements will be more
appropriate within the overall structure
of the prohibitions while still achieving
our goal of prohibiting misleading
conduct that may affect an investor’s
decision-making process. We also
continue to believe that, in light of the
rule’s prohibition on making untrue
statements and omissions of material
fact, including ‘‘false’’ is unnecessary in
the catch-all provision as it is already
covered by another prohibition.266
C. Conditions Applicable to
Testimonials and Endorsements,
Including Solicitations
1. Overview
Consistent with the proposal, the final
rule permits advisers to include
testimonials and endorsements in an
advertisement, subject to the rule’s
general prohibitions and additional
conditions.267 These conditions differ
depending on whether the testimonial
or endorsement is compensated or
uncompensated, which is similar to the
framework we proposed.268
Numerous commenters supported the
proposed expansion from the current
advertising rule to permit advisers to
include testimonials and endorsements
in advertisements.269 Commenters
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13047 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
270See Consumer Federation Comment Letter;
IAA Comment Letter.
271See Comment Letter of TABR Capital
Management, LLC (Jan. 6, 2020); Comment Letter of
the Institute for the Fiduciary Standard (Feb. 10,
2020) (‘‘Fiduciary Institute Comment Letter’’).
272See NAPFA Comment Letter; Mercer
Comment Letter (arguing that permitting paid
endorsements will lead to largest advisers vying for
endorsements from celebrities and popular
‘‘financial gurus’’).
273See supra section II.A.3.
274Final rule 206(4)–1(e)(6) and (16).
275See final rule 206(4)–1(b) (imposing
disclosure, adviser oversight, and disqualification
conditions). This approach derives from the current
solicitation rule. See also final rule 206(4)–
1(b)(4)(i).
276Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1). We proposed the
final disclosure requirements separately under the
proposed amendments to the advertising rule and
solicitation rule. The proposed advertising rule
amendments would have required disclosures that:
(1) The testimonial was given by a client or
investor, and the endorsement was given by a non
client or non-investor, as applicable; and (2) if
applicable, cash or non-cash compensation has
been provided by or on behalf of the adviser in
connection with obtaining or using the testimonial
or endorsement. See proposed rule 206(4)–1(b)(1).
The proposed amendments to the solicitation rule
would have required disclosure of the terms of the
compensation arrangement and description of any
material conflicts of interest. See proposed rules
206(4)–3(a)(1)(iii)(D) and (E).
277See proposed rule 206(4)–3(a)(1)(iii)(F).
278See NAPFA Comment Letter; Mercer
Comment Letter.
279MMI Comment Letter; Mercer Comment
Letter.
280FINRA’s rule 2210(d)(6) requires, among other
things, that a testimonial disclose the following: (i)
The fact that it may not be representative of the
experience of other customers; (ii) the fact that the
testimonial is no guarantee of future performance or
success; and (iii) if more than $100 in value is paid
for the testimonial, the fact that it is a paid
testimonial. FINRA rule 2210(d)(6)(B).
281For example, unlike under FINRA rule 2210,
an adviser would be required to disclose the
material terms of compensation for a testimonial,
even where a person receives de minimis
compensation, under the final marketing rule.
282See final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(i). If the promoter
provides the disclosures, the investment adviser
Continued
explained that consumer preferences
have shifted to rely increasingly on
third-party resources to inform
purchasing decisions.270 Other
commenters opposed permitting any
testimonials or endorsements, paid or
unpaid, in adviser advertisements.271
These commenters were concerned that
permitting advisers to advertise paid
testimonials and endorsements would
increase puffery and cause a ‘‘race to the
bottom’’ for advisers seeking paid
endorsements.272
As discussed above, we have
expanded the definitions of both
testimonial and endorsement to include
certain solicitation activity.273 This
expansion recognizes the overlap
between our approach to solicitation
under the proposal and compensated
testimonials and endorsements.274 It is
also designed to capture solicitation
activities that previously have been
subject to the cash solicitation rule and
subject them to the marketing rule. The
final rule includes conditions for an
adviser’s use of testimonials and
endorsements designed to address
concerns raised by commenters. These
conditions include disclosure
requirements to make prospective
clients and investors aware of the
conflicts of interest associated with
testimonials and endorsements and a
requirement that an investment adviser
have a reasonable basis to believe that
the testimonial or endorsement
complies with the marketing rule. In
addition, because we believe
compensated testimonials and
endorsements present a heightened risk
for conflicts and misleading investors,
the final rule will prevent advisers from
using certain compensated testimonials
and endorsements made by certain ‘‘bad
actors’’ and other ineligible persons.
The final rule will also require that an
investment adviser have a written
agreement with certain persons giving a
testimonial or endorsement for
compensation above the de minimis
threshold.275
2. Required Disclosures
The final rule will require
advertisements that include any
testimonials or endorsements to provide
disclosures of certain information
similar to what was proposed under
each of the advertising and solicitation
rules, subject to certain exceptions, as
discussed below. Specifically, the final
rule will require that the investment
adviser disclose, or reasonably believe
that the person giving the testimonial or
endorsement discloses, the following at
the time the testimonial or endorsement
is disseminated:
(i) Clearly and prominently:
(A) That the testimonial was given by
a current client or private fund investor,
and the endorsement was given by a
person other than a current client or
private fund investor, as applicable;
(B) That cash or non-cash
compensation was provided for the
testimonial or endorsement, if
applicable; and
(C) A brief statement of any material
conflicts of interest on the part of the
person giving the testimonial or
endorsement resulting from the
investment adviser’s relationship with
such person;
(ii) The material terms of any
compensation arrangement including a
description of the compensation
provided or to be provided, directly or
indirectly, to the person for the
testimonial or endorsement; and
(iii) A description of any material
conflicts of interest on the part of the
person giving the testimonial or
endorsement resulting from the
investment adviser’s relationship with
such person and/or any compensation
arrangement.276
We are not adopting the proposed
requirement under the solicitation rule
to disclose the amount of any additional
cost to the investor as a result of
solicitation for the reasons discussed
below.277 We believe that disclosures
are needed to inform and protect
investors effectively when they are
presented with testimonials and
endorsements. We also share the
concerns raised by some commenters
that permitting paid testimonials and
endorsements would increase the
likelihood that personal bias will
mislead investors.278 To address these
issues in particular, we are adopting two
disclosure requirements that we
proposed under the solicitation rule—
the disclosure of compensation
arrangements and material conflicts of
interest—under the final rule. We
believe that these disclosures will
benefit investors by providing them
with a fuller context when presented
with a testimonial or endorsement,
without overly burdening those
providing the testimonial or
endorsement.
Some commenters suggested that we
should align our disclosure approach
with FINRA’s rule 2210 to ease the
compliance burdens of investment
advisers that are registered broker
dealers or affiliated with broker
dealers.279 However, instead of aligning
our disclosures with FINRA’s, such as
FINRA’s specific, standardized
disclosures in rule 2210(d)(6),280 we
believe the final rule should provide
advisers with a broad framework within
which to determine how best to present
testimonials and endorsements so they
are not false or misleading. Accordingly,
we are not adopting standardized
disclosure requirements under our final
rule. As a result, dually registered
advisers and broker-dealers, that are not
subject to the exemptions discussed
below, that provide testimonials and
endorsements with the disclosures
required by FINRA should consider
what additional or different disclosures
they would need to make to comply
with the final marketing rule.281
a. Clearly and Prominently
The final rule will require that
particular disclosures with respect to
testimonials and endorsements be made
clearly and prominently.282 The
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13048 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
must reasonably believe that the promoter provides
such disclosures clearly and prominently. See final
rule 206(4)–1(b)(1).
283See proposed rule 206(4)–1(b)(1).
284See proposed rule 206(4)–3(a)(1)(iii).
285We believe this will help reduce the risk of
having misleading testimonials or endorsements in
addition to the general prohibitions, which prohibit
advertisements from being materially false or
misleading. See 206(4)–1(a).
286See infra section II.C.2.f. (discussing oral
testimonials and endorsements). The discussion in
this section also applies to other parts of the final
rule that include a clear and prominent disclosure
standard, including the required disclosures related
to third-party ratings and predecessor performance.
Accordingly, such required disclosures should be
included within the advertisement.
287See section II.B.4. (discussing commenters’
concerns with respect to the clear and prominent
standard). See, e.g., MMI Comment Letter; T. Rowe
Price Comment Letter; Fidelity Comment Letter;
IAA Comment Letter.
288See final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(i)(A) through (C).
289Accordingly, in the case of a compensated oral
testimonial or endorsement, the adviser may,
instead of recording and retaining the entire oral
testimonial or endorsement, make and keep a
record of the disclosures provided to investors. See
final rule 204–2(a)(11)(i)(A)(2). See also infra
section II.C.2.f and II.I. (discussing oral testimonials
and endorsements). If an adviser or promoter
provides an investor with written disclosures in
connection with an oral testimonial or
endorsement, instead of delivering the disclosures
orally, the adviser or promoter should alert the
investor to the importance of the disclosures,
particularly with respect to the disclosures that
must be provided clearly and prominently. See final
rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(i). If an adviser did not inform
the investor about the importance of such
disclosures, it would violate the general prohibition
against false or misleading statements. See final rule
206(4)–1(a)(1).
290An advertisement intended to be viewed on a
mobile device, for example, may meet the standard
in a different way than one intended to be seen as
a print advertisement (e.g., a person viewing a
mobile device could be automatically redirected to
the required disclosure before viewing the
substance of an advertisement).
291See infra section II.C.2.a.i. through iii.
(discussing status as a client or non-client, fact of
compensation, and statement of material conflicts
of interest).
292See, e.g., Fidelity Comment Letter; IAA
Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II
(suggesting that we adopt, or adopt an approach
consistent with, the FTC approach to hyperlinks).
See also Federal Trade Commission, Dot Com
Disclosures Guidance Update (Mar. 2013). While
the FTC guidance permits the use of hyperlinks, it
generally allows the use of hyperlinks to provide
disclosures that are ‘‘not integral to the triggering
claim’’ and places a number of conditions on the
ability to provide hyperlinks.
293Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(i)(A). See proposed
rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(i). The promoter may be an
entity or a natural person.
294Client status will be assessed at the time that
a testimonial or endorsement is disseminated.
However, depending on the facts and
circumstances, a former client may be considered
a client for these purposes. For example, if a person
is giving a statement about his or her recent prior
experience with the adviser, the communication
could be treated as a testimonial.
proposed advertising rule would have
required clear and prominent disclosure
of: (1) Whether the testimonial or
endorsement was given by a client or
investor or a non-client or investor; and
(2) if applicable, that compensation was
provided by or on behalf of the adviser
in connection with the testimonial or
endorsement.283 The proposed
solicitation rule would have required
that, under the terms of the written
agreement, the solicitor or adviser
provide the investor at the time of
solicitation activities with a separate
disclosure that includes, among other
matters, the terms of any compensation
arrangement, including a description of
the compensation provided or to be
provided to the solicitor, and a
description of any potential material
conflicts of interest on the part of the
solicitor resulting from the investment
adviser’s relationship with the solicitor
and/or the compensation
arrangement.284 In merging the two
rules under the final rule, we have
determined to preserve that testimonials
and endorsements must provide for
certain concise disclosures to be made
clearly and prominently as well as for
certain additional disclosures to be
made at the time the testimonial or
endorsement is disseminated.
We continue to believe that certain
required disclosures should be made
clearly and prominently to help prevent
misleading testimonials and
endorsements.285 In addition to the two
disclosures required under the proposed
advertising rule, we also are requiring
that a brief statement of any material
conflicts of interest on the part of the
person giving the testimonial or
endorsement be made clearly and
prominently. In order to be clear and
prominent, the disclosures must be at
least as prominent as the testimonial or
endorsement. In other words, we believe
that the ‘‘clear and prominent’’ standard
requires that the disclosures be included
within the testimonial or endorsement,
or in the case of an oral testimonial or
endorsement, provided at the same
time.286
As discussed above, many
commenters requested more flexibility
with respect to hyperlinked disclosures
under the clear and prominent
standard.287 With respect to the
disclosures for testimonials and
endorsements that are subject to the
clear and prominent standard, we
believe such disclosures must be
provided clearly and prominently
within the testimonial or
endorsement.288 Specifically, we believe
such disclosures should appear close to
the associated statement such that the
statement and disclosures are read at the
same time, rather than referring the
reader somewhere else to obtain the
disclosures. In cases in which an oral
testimonial or endorsement is provided,
it would be consistent with the clear
and prominent standard if the
disclosures are provided in a written
format, so long as they are provided at
the time of the testimonial or
endorsement.289 The requirement to
provide the disclosures with respect to
testimonials and endorsements ‘‘clearly
and prominently’’ may necessitate
formatting and tailoring based on the
form of the communication.290
However, after considering comments,
we are requiring advisers to provide
only certain disclosures regarding
testimonials and endorsements clearly
and prominently, as discussed in more
detail below.291 We believe that the
disclosures required to be provided
clearly and prominently are integral to
the concerns associated with
testimonials and endorsements in an
advertisement. Our approach is
consistent with the Federal Trade
Commission’s (‘‘FTC’’) guidance, which
also requires disclosures that are
integral to the claim to accompany the
claim to prevent deception.292 We also
believe that these disclosures can be
provided succinctly within the
testimonial or endorsement such that
advisers may advertise their services
using modern technology and platforms
that limit the size or characters of an
advertisement. Moreover, we expect that
succinctly providing these disclosures
will promote their salience and impact.
Other required disclosures, which
provide investors with additional useful
information but that are not integral to
the concerns related to these
advertisements, may be provided
through hyperlinks, in a separate
disclosure document or any other
similar methods.
i. Status as a Client or Non-Client
Similar to what we proposed under
the advertising rule, the final rule will
require clear and prominent disclosure
that a testimonial was given by a current
client or investor, and that an
endorsement was given by a person
other than a current client or
investor.293 We believe that this
disclosure will provide investors with
important context for weighing the
relevance of the testimonial or
endorsement. For example, an investor
might reasonably give more weight to a
statement made about an adviser by a
current investor rather than someone
who was never an investor.294
Additionally, without clearly attributing
an endorsement to someone other than
an investor, the advertisement could
mislead investors who may assume the
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13049 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
295Testimonials and endorsements are subject to
the rule’s general prohibitions. Whether a
testimonial or endorsement would reasonably be
likely to cause an untrue or misleading implication
or inference to be drawn concerning a material fact
relating to the investment adviser would depend on
the facts and circumstances. For instance, it would
be misleading for an adviser to provide investors
with a testimonial claiming a positive experience
with the adviser by a former client, without
mentioning that the person has not been a client for
20 years.
296See proposed rule 206(4)–3(a)(1)(iii)(B). The
proposed rule would have also required disclosure
of the adviser’s name. Proposed rule 206(4)–
3(a)(1)(iii)(A).
297Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(i) through (ii). The
proposed advertising rule would have only required
disclosure of the client or non-client status of the
person providing the testimonial or endorsement
and whether compensation has been provided for
the testimonial or endorsement. See proposed rule
206(4)–1(b)(1).
298 In the case of testimonials and endorsements
where compensation paid is above the de minimis
threshold, advisers are required to maintain a
written agreement with a promoter. See final rule
206(4)–1(b)(2)(ii) and (b)(4)(i). In such cases, the
agreement would provide a record of the name of
such promoter. See rule 204–2(a)(10), which
currently requires that advisers retain ‘‘[a]ll written
agreements (or copies thereof) entered into by the
investment adviser with any client or otherwise
relating to the business of such investment adviser
as such.’’
299Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(i)(B). See proposed
rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(ii).
300Consumer Federation Comment Letter; SBIA
Comment Letter.
301Consumer Federation Comment Letter.
302Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(i)(C).
303We expect this brief statement of any material
conflicts of interest to be substantially shorter than
the description of any material conflicts of interest
that is required, as discussed below. See final rule
206(4)–1(b)(1)(ii).
304See final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(iii).
305Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(ii).
306See proposed rule 206(4)–3(a)(1)(iii)(D).
307See, e.g., Comment Letter of Flexible Plan
Investments, Ltd. on proposed solicitation rule
(Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Flexible Plan Investments
Comment Letter I’’); Comment Letter of Proskauer
Rose LLP (Feb. 10, 2020) (‘‘Proskauer Comment
Letter’’).
308Flexible Plan Investments Comment Letter I.
309This is consistent with the Commission’s
position regarding the disclosure requirements
under the existing cash solicitation rule. See 1979
Adopting Release, supra footnote 3, at text
accompanying nn.15 and 16.
310This is similar to the Commission’s position
under the existing cash solicitation rule. See 1979
Adopting Release, supra footnote 3, at text
accompanying nn.15 and 16.
endorsement reflects the endorser’s
experience as an investor.295
The proposed solicitation rule would
have required disclosure of the name of
the solicitor.296 However, similar to the
proposed advertising rule, the final rule
will not require the disclosure of the
name of the promoter.297 We did not
receive any comments on the
requirement under the proposed
solicitation rule to disclose the name of
the solicitor. We expect that advisers
may still choose to disclose the full
name of the promoter because
disclosing the name of the promoter
could help an investor assess the
reputation or other qualifications of the
person. However, we believe our final
approach is appropriate for privacy
reasons and takes into account cases
where a promoter may not wish to give
his or her name.298 We also believe that
in cases where a name is not provided,
the rule’s general prohibitions will
protect investors from fraudulent or
misleading testimonials or
endorsements. An investor may also
give less weight to that particular
testimonial or endorsement.
ii. Fact of Compensation
Similar to what we proposed under
the advertising rule, the final rule will
require clear and prominent disclosure
that cash or non-cash compensation was
provided for the testimonial or
endorsement, if applicable.299 Similar to
the disclosure of a promoter’s status as
a current investor or person other than
a current investor, we continue to
believe that this disclosure will provide
investors with important context for
weighing the relevance of the
testimonial or endorsement. Two
commenters specifically supported
requiring advisers to disclose whether
they paid for testimonials or
endorsements under the proposed
advertising rule.300 One of these
commenters stated that without
requiring clear and prominent
disclosure that a particular testimonial
or endorsement is effectively a ‘‘paid-for
advertisement,’’ investors would not be
able to determine whether they are
consuming an authentic, unbiased
review of the adviser.301 We agree, and
we believe that this simple but clear
disclosure is one that is both beneficial
for investors and easy to implement for
advisers, including on space
constrained platforms. For example,
when providing a testimonial or
endorsement on a social media
platform, an adviser must clearly and
prominently label the testimonial or
endorsement as being a paid testimonial
or endorsement.
iii. Statement of Material Conflicts of
Interest
The final rule will require clear and
prominent disclosure of a brief
statement of any material conflicts of
interest on the part of the promoter
resulting from its relationship with the
investment adviser.302 Similar to the
other disclosures subject to the clear
and prominent standard, we expect this
disclosure to be succinct. For example,
it would be sufficient for an adviser to
simply state that the testimonial or
endorsement was provided by an
affiliate of the adviser, or that the
promoter is related to the adviser, if this
relationship is the source of the
conflict.303
We believe the required disclosures
result in information that informs and
protects investors, yet can be provided
succinctly within the testimonial or
endorsement. We also believe this form
of layered disclosure enhances the
salience of this information and may
help investors better focus on the
presence of conflicts of interest than
requiring potentially more lengthy
disclosures. We require a fuller
description of any material conflicts of
interests resulting from the promoter’s
relationship with the adviser and/or the
promoter’s compensation arrangement
with the adviser as part of the
disclosures provided with respect to
testimonials or endorsements, but this is
not subject to the clear and prominent
standard.304
b. Material Terms of Compensation
Arrangement
The final rule will require disclosure
of the material terms of any
compensation arrangement, including a
description of the compensation
provided or to be provided, directly or
indirectly, to the person for the
testimonial or endorsement.305 This
provision is based on the disclosure
requirement of the proposed solicitation
rule. The proposed solicitation rule
would have required the disclosure of
the terms of any compensation
arrangement, including a description of
the compensation provided or to be
provided to the solicitor.306 Some
commenters stated that the disclosure
requirement was overbroad and
unclear.307 For instance, one commenter
stated that it is unclear whether an
adviser should disclose reimbursing a
solicitor for third-party expenses in the
solicitation process under this
requirement.308 The final rule requires
disclosure of compensation provided,
directly or indirectly, for the testimonial
or endorsement. If payment of third
party expenses is part of the
compensation arrangement for the
testimonial or endorsement, then such
payment should be disclosed under the
final rule.
If a specific amount of cash
compensation is paid, the advertisement
should disclose that amount.309 If the
compensation takes the form of a
percentage of the total advisory fee over
a period of time, then the advertisement
should disclose such percentage and
time period.310 With respect to non-cash
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13050 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
311This is also similar to the Commission’s
position under the existing cash solicitation rule.
See 1979 Adopting Release, supra footnote 3, at text
accompanying nn.15 and 16.
312See Proskauer Comment Letter.
313See Investment Adviser Marketing Feedback
Form.
314As stated in our proposal, the materiality of
the incentive to solicit investors to an investor’s
evaluation of the referral depends on the type and
magnitude of the compensation. We believe that the
description of a compensation arrangement will be
helpful for investors to consider the types and
levels of incentives present. 2019 Proposing
Release, supra footnote 7, at section II.B.4.
315 If the amount of increased fees for the investor
is known or could reasonably be obtained, then
such amount should be disclosed as part of this
requirement.
316Proskauer Comment Letter (stating that this
requirement would result in ‘‘very extensive’’
disclosures, particularly if an adviser has multiple
arrangements with multiple solicitors).
317Such activities will fall under the definition of
endorsement.
318See final rule 206(4)–1(e)(1)(ii).
319See also Fiduciary Interpretation, supra
footnote 88, at 23 (‘‘an adviser must eliminate or at
least expose through full and fair disclosure all
conflicts of interest which might incline an
investment adviser—consciously or
unconsciously—to render advice which was not
disinterested.’’).
compensation, if the value of the non
cash compensation is readily
ascertainable, the disclosures should
include that amount. Moreover, if all or
part of the compensation, cash or non
cash, is payable upon dissemination of
the testimonial or endorsement or is
deferred or contingent on a certain
future event, such as an investor’s
continuation or renewal of its advisory
relationship, agreement, or investment,
then the advertisement should disclose
those terms.311
In response to this requirement under
our proposed solicitation rule, one
commenter argued that requiring
detailed disclosures about
compensation arrangements would
result in lengthy disclosures that would
be confusing for, and irrelevant to,
investors.312 The commenter suggested
that the rule require solicitors to
disclose only that they are receiving
compensation for the solicitation. This
commenter stated that this disclosure
would adequately alert investors to the
inherent conflict of interest associated
with such compensation. At the same
time, several commenters considered
additional compensation information
about a compensated solicitor’s referral,
including the amount paid to the
solicitor for referring the adviser,
whether there would be any additional
cost to the investor, and the solicitor’s
relationship to the adviser, ‘‘very
important.’’ 313
Although we believe that a simple
disclosure that compensation was
provided is sufficient for purposes of
the clear and prominent disclosures, we
continue to believe that the disclosure
related to the terms of the compensation
arrangement help convey to the investor
the nature and magnitude of the
person’s incentive to refer the investor
to the adviser.314 The incentive might
vary based on the structure of the
compensation arrangement. A promoter
that receives a flat or fixed fee from an
adviser for a set number of referrals
might have a different incentive in
referring to the adviser than another that
receives a fee, such as a percentage of
the investor’s assets under management,
for each investor that becomes a client
of, or a private fund investor with, the
adviser. Furthermore, trailing fees (i.e.,
fees that are continuing) that are
contingent on the investor’s relationship
with the adviser continuing for a
specified period of time present
additional considerations in evaluating
the promoter’s incentives. It would be
relevant to an investor to know that a
promoter continues to receive
compensation after the investor
becomes a client of, or private fund
investor with, the adviser, as well as the
period of time over which the promoter
continues to receive compensation for
such solicitation. A longer trailing
period can present a greater incentive to
solicit the investor. In addition, if, as
part of the compensation arrangement
between the adviser and promoter, an
investor would pay increased advisory
fees for becoming a client as a result of
the promoter’s testimonial or
endorsement, then this information
would be relevant so that the investor
can make such considerations when
choosing an adviser.315
After considering comments, we are
requiring that the disclosures only
include the material terms of any
compensation arrangement.
Accordingly, these disclosures need not
include immaterial aspects of a
compensation arrangement. These
disclosures also need not include
detailed information about the
calculation of the compensation payable
to each person giving a testimonial or
endorsement; they need not be lengthy
to convey the magnitude and nature of
the conflict. In addition, these
disclosures should not include all
compensation arrangements that an
adviser has with any and all promoters,
as one commenter suggested, but rather
should include only information about
the relevant compensation arrangement
between an adviser and a specific
promoter in order for the disclosure to
be effective.316 As modified, this
provision will require disclosures about
any compensation arrangement with a
promoter for its testimonial or
endorsement.
An adviser may arrange to
compensate a third-party marketing
company to advertise and refer potential
clients to the adviser. If the
compensation arrangement calls for a
percentage of fees collected from the
referred clients, then the disclosures
should state so and describe what that
percentage is. An adviser may also have
a directed brokerage arrangement with a
third-party brokerage firm, in which the
adviser will direct brokerage to the firm
as compensation for the firm’s
solicitation of clients for, or referral of
clients to, the adviser.317 In these cases,
the adviser or firm should disclose the
material terms of this arrangement,
including a brief description of the
compensation provided or to be
provided to the firm. As part of the
disclosure of the material terms of the
compensation, the disclosure should
state the range of commissions that the
firm charges for investors directed to it
by the adviser. Furthermore, if the
solicitation or referral is contingent
upon the firm receiving a particular
threshold of directed brokerage (and
other services, if applicable) from the
adviser, the disclosure should say so.
Additional disclosure would be
required, for example, if the firm and
the adviser agree that as compensation
for the firm’s endorsement of the
adviser, the adviser’s directed brokerage
activities would extend to other clients
such as the solicited client’s friends and
family.
The final rule will require the
advertisement to disclose compensation
that the adviser provides directly or
indirectly to a person for a testimonial
or endorsement.318 For example, if an
individual solicits an investor and the
adviser compensates a related person of
that individual for such solicitation
(such as an employer or another entity
that is associated with the individual),
the adviser or individual will need to
include this compensation in its
disclosures. If a person, such as a
broker-dealer, refers clients to advisers
that recommend the broker-dealer’s or
its affiliate’s proprietary investment
products or recommend products that
have revenue sharing or other pecuniary
arrangements with the broker-dealer or
its affiliate, the disclosures must say
so.319 Regardless of whether the
adviser’s arrangement is with an
individual or the individual’s firm,
compensation to the firm for any
testimonial or endorsement will
constitute compensation under the rule,
as it would be likely to affect the
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13051 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
320Proposed rule 206(4)–3(a)(1)(iii)(E).
321Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(iii). The materiality
standard applies to the investor(s) being solicited by
the promoter. In other words, if an investor would
consider a particular conflict of interest on the part
of the promoter to be material to his or her decision
to choose an investment adviser, then such conflict
of interest should be disclosed.
322See TINA Comment Letter.
323See Proskauer Comment Letter; Mercer
Comment Letter.
324See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I.
325See, e.g., Fidelity Comment Letter.
326See, e.g., Fidelity Comment Letter, which also
stated that Form CRS would be an additional place
where investors may find similar information.
327Such persons would also have disclosure
obligations under the anti-fraud provisions of the
Federal securities laws. If a person meets the
definition of ‘‘investment adviser,’’ as defined
under section 202(a)(11) of the Advisers Act, such
person has a fiduciary duty to clients, regardless of
whether the adviser is registered or required to be
registered, and is thus liable under the anti-fraud
provisions of the Advisers Act and other Federal
securities laws for failure to disclose conflicts of
interest.
328See, e.g., Item 4.A. of Form ADV, Part 2
(requires disclosure if a relationship between
adviser and supervised person’s other financial
industry activities creates a material conflict of
interest with clients); Item 5.E of Form ADV, Part
2 (requires disclosure of conflict of interest to the
extent that the adviser or any of its supervised
persons accepts compensation for the sale of
securities or other investment products); Item 10.C.
of Form ADV, Part 2 (requires description of
material conflict of interests with related persons,
as defined in Form ADV, and only if the
relationship or arrangement with the related person
creates a material conflict of interest with clients);
Item 10.D. of Form ADV, Part 2 (requires disclosure
of material conflict of interest if the adviser receives
compensation from or has other business
relationships with other advisers).
329The Disclosure Obligation requires that a
broker-dealer disclose in writing all material facts
about the scope and terms of its relationship with
a retail customer, including the material fees and
costs the customer will incur as well as all material
facts relating to its conflicts of interest associated
with the recommendation, including third-party
payments and compensation arrangements. See
Regulation Best Interest Release, supra footnote
146, at 14. See also infra section II.C.5. (discussing
exemptions).
330See infra section II.C.5. (discussing
exemptions). To the extent that a broker-dealer’s
testimonial or endorsement under rule 206(4)–1 is
a recommendation to a retail customer of a
securities transaction or investment strategy
involving securities by a broker-dealer, the
Disclosure Obligation under Regulation BI would
apply to the broker-dealer’s testimonial or
endorsement.
331This will be a change from the current
solicitation rule’s requirement that the solicitor
state whether the client will pay a specific fee to
the adviser in addition to the advisory fee, and
whether the client will pay higher advisory fees
than other clients (and the difference in such fees)
because the client was referred by the solicitor. See
current rule 206(4)–3(b)(6). 332See section II.C.2.b. (discussing material terms
of compensation arrangement disclosure).
individual’s salary, bonus, commission
or continued association with the firm.
c. Material Conflicts of Interest
The proposed solicitation rule would
have required a description of any
potential material conflicts of interest
on the part of the solicitor resulting
from the investment adviser’s
relationship with the solicitor and/or
compensation arrangement.320 We have
slightly modified this proposed
requirement by removing the word
‘‘potential’’ from ‘‘potential material
conflicts of interest,’’ as discussed in
detail below. Accordingly, the final rule
will require a description of any
material conflicts of interest on the part
of the person giving the testimonial or
endorsement resulting from the
investment adviser’s relationship with
such person and/or any compensation
arrangement.321
One commenter to the proposed
advertising rule requested that we
broaden the disclosure provision and
require disclosure of all ‘‘material
connections,’’ stating that there are
types of connections besides the fact of
compensation that could ‘‘materially
affect the weight or credibility’’ of a
testimonial or endorsement.322 With
respect to the proposed solicitation rule
requirement, some commenters
supported making clear to investors that
a conflict of interest may result from an
adviser’s relationship with the solicitor
and/or their compensation
arrangement.323 Others stated that the
disclosure of potential material conflicts
of interest would likely be redundant
with the required disclosure of the
terms of any compensation
arrangement.324 Commenters also
argued that such a requirement would
result in disclosure that is too lengthy
without much benefit.325 These
commenters stated that registered
investment advisers and broker-dealers
who act as solicitors are already subject
to similar disclosure obligations under
Form ADV Part 2 and Regulation BI,
respectively.326
We believe our modification of
removing the word ‘‘potential’’ from the
proposed requirement will help reduce
the burden on advisers as well as the
length of the disclosures without
eliminating any material information
provided to investors. We do not believe
the compensation arrangement
disclosure alone is sufficient as it
merely implies the conflict. Rather,
there should be explicit disclosure that
the promoter, due to such
compensation, has an incentive to
recommend the adviser, resulting in a
material conflict of interest.
Additionally, we believe a promoter
could have other material conflicts of
interest based on a relationship with the
investment adviser that could affect the
credibility of the testimonial or
endorsement. Accordingly, to the extent
that there is any material conflict of
interest, the rule will require a
description of such material conflict of
interest.
We recognize that persons who are
also registered as investment advisers or
broker-dealers have other disclosure
obligations relating to conflicts of
interest, such as the requirements of
Form ADV.327 We do not believe that
disclosures provided in Form ADV
would sufficiently satisfy this provision.
For example, although Form ADV Part
2 requires disclosure of material
conflicts of interest, the disclosure
required by the form is limited to
conflicts related to relationships with
specific personnel such as the adviser’s
supervised persons and related
persons.328 Moreover, we do not believe
that an adviser that is acting as a
promoter would be required to deliver
its Form ADV Part 2 to a person the
adviser was soliciting to become a client
of another investment adviser. On the
other hand, in circumstances where
Regulation BI applies to a broker
dealer’s activity as a promoter, we
believe the Disclosure Obligation under
Regulation BI is sufficiently similar to
satisfy the disclosure provisions under
our final rule.329 Accordingly, as
discussed below, we are adopting a
partial exemption from the final rule’s
required disclosures in certain
circumstances.330
We had proposed under the
solicitation rule to require disclosure of
the amount of any additional cost to the
investor as a result of the testimonial or
endorsement. We did not receive any
comments on this proposed
requirement. After further
contemplation, we believe that such a
requirement under the final rule, which
would apply to all testimonials and
endorsements, would create burdens
that are not commensurate with the
benefits of the disclosure and are
accordingly eliminating this
requirement.331 Such costs could vary
by client and over time, making it
difficult for advisers to disclose
concisely in an advertisement.
Moreover, to the extent that an adviser
knows or reasonably should know that
an investor would pay increased
advisory fees as a result of its
compensation arrangement or
relationship with a promoter, then such
disclosures would be made under
another provision of the rule as
discussed above.332
d. Reasonable Belief
Under the final rule, an adviser that
does not provide the required
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13052 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
333See proposed rule 206(4)–1(b)(1) and (2) (each
requiring a reasonable belief standard for
investment advisers). See also proposed rule
206(4)–3(a)(2) (requiring a reasonable basis for
believing that solicitor has complied with the
written agreement requirement).
334See final rule 206(4)–1(b)(2)(ii). To the extent
that the promoter’s testimonial or endorsement falls
under the de minimis exemption, advisers would
not be required to, but may choose to, enter into a
written agreement and include such provisions.
Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(2)(ii) and (b)(4)(i).
335Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1). This is similar to the
existing cash solicitation rule, which requires that
the solicitor disclosure be delivered at the time of
any solicitation activities. See current rule 206(4)–
3(a)(2)(iii)(A).
336Proposed rule 206(4)–3(a)(1)(iii).
337The timing for several aspects of the proposed
solicitation rule was ‘‘at the time’’ of solicitation.
See 2019 Proposing Release, supra footnote 7, at
section II.B.4 (discussing solicitor disclosure),
section II.B.5. (discussing written agreement),
section II.B.6. (discussing adviser oversight and
compliance) and section II.B.7 (discussing
disqualification). 338The current solicitation rule requires that the
solicitor deliver the solicitor disclosure ‘‘at the time
of any solicitation activities.’’ Rule 206(4)–
3(a)(2)(ii). 339See IAA Comment Letter; Flexible Plan
Investments Comment Letter I (‘‘. . . delivery
should simply be required before the recipient of
the solicitation or referral becomes a client of the
adviser.’’); Nesler Comment Letter. 340The exemption for broker-dealers subject to
Regulation BI would allow for the related
disclosures to be provided prior to or at the time
of a recommendation, which may, in some cases,
precede a particular testimonial or endorsement for
private fund investors. However, unless the broker
dealer had made previous recommendations subject
to Regulation BI to the investor, the testimonial or
endorsement would likely be the first time the
investor is receiving the disclosure. See Regulation
Best Interest Release, supra footnote 146 (‘‘Broker
dealers could meet the Disclosure Obligation by
making certain required disclosures of information
regarding conflicts of interest to their customers at
the beginning of a relationship, and this form of
disclosure may be standardized. However, if
standardized disclosure, provided at such time,
does not sufficiently identify the material facts
relating to conflicts of interest associated with any
particular recommendation, the disclosure would
need to be supplemented so that such disclosure is
tailored to the particular recommendation.’’).
341See proposed rule 206(4)–3(a)(1)(iii). The
current solicitation rule also requires delivery of a
separate disclosure. 342See final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1)(i). See also
section II.C.2.a. (discussing clear and prominent
standard).
343See, e.g., MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I;
SIFMA AMG Comment Letter I (responding to our
request for comment in the Proposing Release as to
whether the disclosure should be separate, as
proposed).
344See, e.g., SIFMA AMG Comment Letter I; IAA
Comment Letter.
345See final rule 206(4)–1(b)(1). This is also
similar to the proposed advertising rule, which
required that the investment adviser clearly and
prominently disclose or reasonably believe that the
testimonial or endorsement clearly and prominently
disclosed certain information. See proposed rule
206(4)–1(b)(1).
disclosures must reasonably believe that
the promoter discloses the required
information. We proposed a reasonable
belief standard under the advertising
rule and continue to believe that the
standard is appropriate in ensuring that
the required disclosures are
provided.333
To have a reasonable belief, an
adviser may provide the required
disclosures to a promoter and seek to
confirm that the promoter provides
those disclosures to investors. For
example, if a blogger or social media
influencer is endorsing and referring
clients to the adviser through his or her
website or platform, the adviser may
provide such blogger or influencer with
the required disclosures and confirm
that they are provided appropriately on
his or her respective pages. The adviser
may choose to include provisions in its
written agreement with the promoter,
requiring the promoter to provide the
required disclosures to investors.334 The
aforementioned ways are only examples
of how an adviser may demonstrate that
it has a reasonable belief.
e. Timing of Disclosures
Under the final rule, the required
disclosures with respect to testimonials
and endorsements must be delivered at
the time the testimonial or endorsement
is disseminated.335 The proposed
solicitation rule would have required
delivery of a separate solicitor
disclosure at the time of any solicitation
activities (or in the case of a mass
communication, as soon as reasonably
practicable thereafter).336 Given that the
final rule requires certain disclosures to
be included within the testimonial or
endorsement per the clear and
prominent standard, rather than
delivered separately, as discussed
below, we are not adopting the
proposed alternative to provide the
disclosures as soon as reasonably
practicable thereafter in the case of mass
communications.
We continue to believe the timing of
disclosures is important.337 If the
disclosures are not provided at the time
the testimonial or endorsement is
disseminated, many of the disclosures
may not have the same impact on
investors.338 Some commenters to the
proposed solicitation rule suggested that
the rule require delivery of solicitor
disclosure after a prospective client
expresses interest in the adviser’s
services or becomes a client of the
adviser, rather than at the time of
solicitation.339 We decline to make this
change as we continue to believe these
disclosures should be provided at the
time of dissemination of the testimonial
or endorsement to protect against
investor confusion.340
f. No Separate Disclosure Requirement
We are not adopting the proposed
requirement for a separate solicitor’s
disclosure.341 In light of the merger of
the advertising and solicitation rules,
we believe that requiring certain
disclosures be provided clearly and
prominently within the testimonial or
endorsement, and other disclosures be
otherwise provided, is a more practical
and effective approach to informing
investors and clients.342 For example, if
an adviser compensates a podcast host
for endorsing the adviser in its podcast
or as an advertisement during the
podcast, including certain of the
required disclosures in the podcast itself
would give greater prominence to these
disclosures and have a greater impact on
the potential investor than a separate
disclosure document with all of the
required disclosures.
Commenters raised concerns about
separate solicitor disclosure, noting that
the extra documentation would burden
investment advisers and overwhelm
clients.343 These commenters also
suggested providing flexibility to
include the disclosures within other
solicitation materials or incorporating
the solicitor disclosure into other
required disclosures, such as the Form
ADV Part 2A. We believe that it would
reduce the effectiveness of the
disclosures for testimonials and
endorsements to allow them all to be
included within other solicitation
materials given our view that particular
disclosures should be provided clearly
and prominently.
In a change from the proposal, the
final rule will not permit the delivery of
the solicitor disclosure as soon as
reasonably practicable after the time of
any solicitation activities in the case of
a mass communication. We believe that
the changes under the final rule, such as
the elimination of a separate disclosure
requirement, eliminate the need to
provide a different delivery requirement
for the required disclosures. In fact, as
noted above, we believe that the
required disclosures should be provided
at the time that such testimonial or
endorsement is disseminated in all
cases in order to have a meaningful
impact on investors.
Under the proposed solicitation rule,
either the adviser or the solicitor would
have been able to give the disclosures.
Commenters generally supported this
flexibility.344 Accordingly, under the
final rule, either the adviser or the
promoter may provide the required
disclosures, subject to the other
conditions of the rule.345 We do not
believe the impact of the disclosures
will be undermined by permitting either
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13053 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
346 If the disclosures are made in writing, we have
stated that an ‘‘in writing’’ requirement could be
satisfied either through paper or electronic means
consistent with existing Commission guidance on
electronic delivery of documents. See Regulation
Best Interest Release, supra footnote 146, at text
accompanying nn.499–500. If delivery of the
required disclosure is made electronically, it should
be done in accordance with the Commission’s
guidance regarding electronic delivery. See Use of
Electronic Media by Broker-Dealers, Transfer
Agents, and Investment Advisers for Delivery of
Information; Additional Examples Under the
Securities Act of 1933, Securities Exchange Act of
1934, and Investment Company Act of 1940,
Release No. 34–37182 (May 9, 1996) [61 FR 24644
(May 15, 1996)]; see also 2000 Release, supra
footnote 43; and see also 1995 Release, supra
footnote 43.
347See NASAA Comment Letter (‘‘Emails, text
messages, instant messages, electronic
presentations, videos, podcasts, and other modern
methods of communications . . . do not adequately
ensure that the investor will read, hear, or
understand the importance of the disclosures.
Furthermore, these and similar electronic
communications are ill-suited to allowing the client
to retain a copy of the disclosure in a form and
location that can easily be recalled when
necessary.’’).
348To the extent that a testimonial or
endorsement is disseminated by an adviser
indirectly through a third party, an adviser should
retain such records as well. See final rule 204–
2(a)(11)(i)(A), which requires that advisers retain a
copy of each advertisement.
349 In addition to the disclosures that are required
to be provided clearly and prominently within the
testimonial or endorsement, an adviser may choose
to provide the other disclosures that are not subject
to the clear and prominent standard within the
testimonial or endorsement. See supra section
II.C.2.a. (discussing clear and prominent standard).
In circumstances in which an adviser does not
provide the other disclosures within the
advertisement, an adviser would be required to
maintain such disclosures under the recordkeeping
rule. See final rule 204–2(a)(15)(i).
350See final rule 204–2(a)(11)(i)(A)(2). If the
required disclosures are provided in a written
format, then only the written disclosures would
need to be maintained. If the required disclosures
are provided orally, however, this record need not
necessarily be an actual recording of the oral
disclosures provided, but must contain the fact that
the oral disclosures were provided, the substance of
what was provided, and when.
351See Nesler Comment Letter (asking the
Commission to clarify that if disclosures are
provided orally, such disclosure in oral form needs
to be recorded prior to being provided to a client,
and not at the time it is provided to the client).
352 In order to avoid duplicative records, advisers
may maintain records of a script or reading of a
script of disclosures provided orally.
353Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(2) and (4).
354Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(2).
355See current rule 206(4)–3(a)(2)(iii)(C)
(requiring that the investment adviser make a bona
fide effort to ascertain whether the solicitor has
complied with the agreement, and have a
reasonable basis for believing that the solicitor has
so complied.). 356See rule 206(4)–3(a)(2)(iii)(C). 357 1979 Adopting Release, supra footnote 3,
accompanying nn.14 and 15. 358However, the oversight requirement contains
two prongs with separate obligations. Although
certain mechanisms in the written agreement, if
implemented, could lead the adviser to have a
reasonable basis for believing that any testimonial
or endorsement complies with the requirements of
the rule, having a written agreement by itself would
not satisfy the first prong of the oversight
requirement.
the adviser or the promoter to provide
the disclosures.
Our final rule does not require an
adviser or promoter to present the
required disclosures in paper.346 One
commenter stated that an investor
would not grasp the importance of the
disclosure if it is not in a paper
document.347 We disagree that
electronic or oral communication
cannot be effective. We believe that
providing flexibility regarding
disclosure format is necessary to allow
the disclosures to be provided at the
time of dissemination of a testimonial or
endorsement. We also believe that our
adopted disclosure requirements will be
adaptable to different types of
testimonial and endorsement
arrangements. Because disclosures must
be clear and prominent, the final rule
mitigates concerns that investors will
not read or hear electronic disclosures.
Regardless of the format, the adviser
will be required, under the Act’s books
and records rule, to make and keep true,
accurate, and current copies of the
advertisement.348 In some
circumstances, a copy of the
advertisement (i.e., the testimonial or
endorsement) may include all of the
required disclosures with respect to the
testimonial or endorsement.349 In the
case of a compensated oral testimonial
or endorsement, the adviser may,
instead of recording and retaining the
entire oral testimonial or endorsement,
make and keep a record of the
disclosures provided to investors.350
Additionally, in response to one
commenter,351 we are clarifying that if
an adviser disseminates the required
disclosures orally in connection with an
oral testimonial or endorsement, the
adviser may choose, consistent with
applicable law, to record the oral
disclosures either prior to or at the time
of the dissemination of the testimonial
or endorsement.352
3. Adviser Oversight and Compliance
All testimonials and endorsements,
including those that are compensated
and those that are uncompensated and
meet prong one of the definition of
advertisement, will be subject to an
adviser oversight and compliance
provision under the final rule.353 The
final rule will require the investment
adviser to have: (i) A reasonable basis
for believing that any testimonial or
endorsement complies with the
requirements of the rule, and (ii) a
written agreement with any person
giving a compensated testimonial or
endorsement that describes the scope of
the agreed upon activities and the terms
of the compensation for those activities
when the adviser is providing
compensation for testimonials and
endorsements that is above the de
minimis threshold.354 The oversight
requirement we are adopting is similar
to the proposed oversight requirement
and the current solicitation rule’s
oversight requirement, but differs in
several respects to address commenters’
concerns and to reflect the merger of the
two rules.355
First, the adviser oversight condition
will require that the adviser have a
reasonable basis for believing that the
testimonial or endorsement complies
with the requirements of the final rule,
rather than the terms of a written
agreement as proposed. The proposal
would have replaced the solicitation
rule’s current requirement that the
written agreement contain an
undertaking by the solicitor to perform
its duties under the agreement in a
manner consistent with the provisions
of the Act and the rules thereunder with
the requirement that the solicitor agree
to perform its solicitation activities in
accordance with sections 206(1), (2),
and (4) of the Act.356 We believe that
explicitly requiring advisers to oversee
third-party advertisements for
compliance with the specific
restrictions and requirements in the
marketing rule, rather than the broader
anti-fraud provisions, more
appropriately and precisely addresses
the risks posed by such advertisements.
The question of what would
constitute a reasonable basis for
believing that the testimonial or
endorsement complies with the
requirements of the final rule would
depend upon the facts and
circumstances. For instance, in the
context of solicitation or referral
activity, we believe that, as under the
solicitation rule, a reasonable basis
could involve periodically making
inquiries of a sample of investors
solicited or referred by the promoter in
order to assess whether that promoter’s
statements comply with the rule.357 An
adviser could implement policies and
procedures to form a reasonable basis
for believing the testimonial or
endorsement complies with the rule. An
adviser also could include terms in its
written agreement with the promoter to
help form such a reasonable belief. Such
agreements could provide mechanisms,
for example, to enable advisers to pre
review testimonials or endorsements, or
otherwise impose limitations on the
content of those statements.358
Second, the final rule will require that
an adviser pay any compensation over
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13054 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
359See rule 206(4)–3(a)(2)(iii); see proposed rule
206(4)–3(a)(1).
360See supra section II.C.2.f.
361For example, the written agreement
requirement could be met through a written private
placement agreement that describes the scope of the
agreed upon activities and the terms of the
compensation for those activities.
362See rule 206(4)–3(a)(2)(iii)(B).
363Under the compliance rule, each adviser that
is registered or required to be registered under the
Act is required to adopt and implement written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to
prevent the adviser and its supervised persons from
violating the Advisers Act and the rules thereunder.
Rule 206(4)–7. See 2019 Proposing Release, supra
footnote 7, at section II.B.6. Advisers should
address their marketing practices in their policies
and procedures under the compliance rule.
364MFA/AIMA Comment Letter I.
365Mercer Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG
Comment Letter II; Nesler Comment Letter; IAA
Comment Letter.
366Mercer Comment Letter.
367MFA/AIMA Commenter Letter I; SIFMA AMG
Comment Letter II.
368Mercer Comment Letter; SIFMA AMG
Comment Letter II.
369SIFMA AMG Comment Letter II.
370Mercer Comment Letter.
371Rule 206(4)–7. See Compliance Programs of
Investment Companies and Investment Advisers,
Release No. IA–2204 (Dec. 17, 2003) [68 FR 74714
(Dec. 24, 2003)] (‘‘Compliance Program Adopting
Release’’).
372 In addition, any endorsements and
testimonials by third parties that are
advertisements, or are part of an advertisement, will
be subject to the recordkeeping obligations of rule
204–2, as discussed below. See infra section II.I.
373Final rule 206(4)–1(b)(3).
374Final rule 206(4)–1(e)(9). See final rule 206(4)–
1(e)(3) and (4) for the defined terms ‘‘disqualifying
Commission action’’ and ‘‘disqualifying event.’’
the de minimis threshold for a
testimonial or endorsement pursuant to
a written agreement with the person
(aside from certain affiliates) giving the
testimonial or endorsement. As
proposed, the final rule will require that
the written agreement describe the
scope of the agreed upon activities and
the terms of the compensation for those
activities. Also as proposed, the final
rule will not require that the written
agreement require the promoter to
deliver the adviser’s brochure. We
continue to believe that this
requirement is duplicative of an
adviser’s delivery obligation under rule
204–3, the Act’s brochure rule.
The final rule, however, will not
require that the written agreement
require the promoter to deliver a
separate written disclosure document as
proposed (and as required under the
current solicitation rule).359 Instead we
are requiring advertisements that
include testimonials or endorsements to
provide certain disclosures at the time
they are disseminated. Thus, we do not
believe the rule should also prescribe in
the written agreement that these
disclosures are delivered in a separate
document.360 In many cases, we believe
the adviser itself will be providing the
disclosures. Therefore, this approach
will provide the adviser with flexibility
in determining whether and how to
address these disclosures in its written
agreement with a promoter.
Consistent with the final rule’s
principles-based approach, this
streamlined requirement provides more
flexibility for an adviser to determine
how to tailor its written agreement with
its promoters.361 We believe that
advisers are better situated to tailor their
oversight approach based on the types
of testimonials and endorsements used
and the risks in their particular
arrangements. For the same reasons, as
proposed, the final rule will not
incorporate the current solicitation
rule’s requirement for the adviser to
obtain a signed and dated
acknowledgment from the client that the
client has received the required
disclosure.362 This principles-based
approach is consistent with the Act’s
compliance rule, which requires
advisers to adopt and implement
compliance policies and procedures, but
does not mandate specific elements of
such policies and procedures.363
One commenter supported a flexible
and principles-based approach to
adviser oversight.364 Several
commenters supported our proposed
approach to streamline the required
provisions of the written agreement,
such as by removing the provision
requiring the solicitor to deliver the
adviser’s brochure.365 Another
commenter opposed the proposed
requirement that the written agreement
require the adviser to oversee the
solicitor for compliance with the Act’s
anti-fraud provisions, arguing that this
is a regulatory function, not an advisory
function.366 Some commenters also
specifically supported removing the
current rule’s requirement that an
adviser obtain a signed and dated
acknowledgment.367 Two commenters,
however, opposed the proposed
oversight requirement, arguing that it
would be burdensome and overbroad to
require the adviser to oversee
compliance with a written agreement.368
One commenter argued that it would
impose a new monitoring cost on
advisers, which they will ultimately
pass along to investors.369 Another
commenter claimed that requiring
advisers to contact a sample of clients
to ascertain whether solicitors were
complying with the written solicitation
agreement would be awkward and
burdensome.370
We believe the modifications to the
adviser oversight condition discussed
above address commenters’ concerns.
These changes are consistent with our
overall approach to shift to a principles
based rule and leverage the Act’s
existing compliance rule.371 We
disagree with commenters’ assertion
that this oversight requirement imposes
a novel burden on advisers or is not an
advisory function, considering the
current solicitation rule’s oversight
provision and the Advisers Act
compliance rule. We continue to believe
that the oversight provision will protect
investors’ interests by requiring advisers
to monitor third-party statements that
constitute adviser advertisements
(whether compensated or
uncompensated) for compliance with
the rule’s requirements, especially when
the adviser does not disseminate the
testimonials or endorsements
directly.372
4. Disqualification for Persons Who
Have Engaged in Misconduct
The final marketing rule prohibits an
adviser from compensating a person,
directly or indirectly, for a testimonial
or endorsement if the adviser knows, or
in the exercise of reasonable care should
know, that the person giving the
testimonial or endorsement is an
ineligible person at the time the
testimonial or endorsement is
disseminated.373 Under the final rule,
an ‘‘ineligible person’’ is a person who
is subject either to a ‘‘disqualifying
Commission action’’ or to any
‘‘disqualifying event,’’ 374 and, as
discussed below, certain of that person’s
employees and other persons associated
with an ineligible person.
The final marketing rule’s
disqualification provisions follow a
structure similar to the proposed
solicitation rule’s disqualification
provisions, with the following changes.
First, to reflect the incorporation of
solicitation and referral activities into
the final marketing rule’s definitions of
endorsements and testimonials, the final
rule applies the disqualification
provisions to persons providing
compensated testimonials and
endorsements (i.e., compensated
promoters). Second, under the final
rule, certain Commission cease and
desist orders will be disqualifying
events (rather than disqualifying
Commission actions, as proposed), and
compensated promoters subject thereto
may be eligible for the final rule’s
conditional carve-out applicable to
disqualifying events. Third, the final
rule conforms the proposed ten-year
lookback period across all disqualifying
events, aligning to advisers’ disciplinary
VerDate Sep<11>2014 21:12 Mar 04, 2021 Jkt 253001 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\05MRR2.SGM 05MRR2
jbell on DSKJLSW7X2PROD with RULES2

13055 Federal Register / Vol. 86, No. 42 / Friday, March 5, 2021 / Rules and Regulations
375Commenters’ requests for not applying the
proposed rule to certain existing solicitation
arrangements are addressed in a separate section,
below.
376See rule 506(d) of Regulation D under the
Securities Act (‘‘rule 506(d) of Regulation D’’).
Consistent with the approach discussed below, the
final rule’s disqualification provision, paragraph
(b)(3), will not disqualify any broker-dealer or any
covered person for purposes of the final rule