Mutual f u n d fact sheet s t a n d a r d s
and internal guidelines

1. Ticker box
• List product type followed by asset class in the
first square
• List all share classes that are available publicly
on the fact sheets. Refer to the prospectus.
Order should follow website, I first, followed by
A, C, Rs.
Product name
• Name of product should appear and reconcile
to the prospectus
3. As of date
• Minimum standard is to indicate the "as of
date" for the most recent calendar quarter
period. Format: DD MMM YVY.
• The indication of "4Q2017" is not required as
the above satisfies the compliance requirement
4. Hypothetical growth charts
• The growth is "hypothetical"
• The amount of the hypothetical investment.
• The beginning and end dates of the chart.
• The lesser of 10 years of data or the entire
history should appear
• Whether the hypothetical performance is
adjusted for fees, charges, expenses and
reinvestments of dividends and capital gains.
(see disclaimer under chart)
• How returns/growth are represented needs to ba
identified (e.g., %, $, etc.)
• If there are multiple share classes, the share
class that is represented in the hypothetical
growth/return needs to be identified
• How "returns" are calculated should be
disclosed (e.g., annualized, calender year,
hypothetical, etc.)
Hypothetical growth chart disclosures
• This disclosure should appear and address how
expenses, costs, dividends and capital gains are
reflected in the chart.
Marketing standard
• Business wants to show share class "I"
• Note: For other document types other share
classes may be considered
5. Calendar year returns
• The lesser of 10 years of data or the entire
history as of last calendar year-end
Marketing standard
• If an index is used, the "Marketing Index"
must be used. Note that the Marketing Index
is typically a broad based index. Please see
"Marketing Benchmark Listing" for a listing of
the appropriate indexes
• List I first, followed by A, C, Rs, and
benchmarks
6. Average annualized total return
• Standardized performance: breaking returns
down into periods (e.g., 1, 5, 10 or since
inception through the most recent quarter)
requires equal comparison across all share
classes. Other non-standardized returns such as
the 3 year may be included as long as they are
equally prominent
• If "since inception" date is used, then the
inception date should be disclosed
Average annualized total returns disclosures
(Performance disclosures related to share
classes)
• This particular "Past performance" disclaimer is
required to be under "Average annualized total
return" chart and should be in bold
• Note: A past performance disclaimer is needed
to be repeated on each page that contains
performance and returns
• For all share classes where performance is
displayed, the total annual operating expense
ratio, gross of any fees waivers or expense
reimbursements, as stated in the fee table
of the fund's prospectus must be disclosed
prominently. The net expense ratio is not
required but is permitted as long as there is
a disclosure that indicated if the fee waiver is
voluntary or contractual and the end date of the
walver is included
• Class i shares requires the disclaimer cited and
reconcile to the prospectus
• Class A shares requires the disclaimer cited.
Class A performance must be displayed with
maximum sales charge included and must
disclose the maximum sales charge percentage.
Class A performance without sales charge is
permitted as non-standard performance but
cannot be shown on its own. The disclaimer
cited must reconcile to the prospectus
• Class C shares requires the disclalmer cited.
Any share class (Class C in this example) with
a CDSC (deferred sales charge) must also
disclose that percentage amount. Disclosures
regarding sales charge can be limited to the
share class(es) being displayed on the page.
The disclaimer cited must reconcile to the
prospectus
• Class R3 shares requires the disclaimer cited
and reconcile to the prospectus
• Class R6 shares requires the disclaimer cited
and reconcile to the prospectus
• The last sentence of the disclaimer is only
required if multiple share classes with differing
Inception dates are shown on the same
performance chart and since inception index
performance is being displayed
7. Expense ratio disclosure
• This should appear under all "Expense ratio
(%)* charts. Required disclosure could vary on
waiver. If required it needs to appear under the
table
8. For consistency, the " " indication should be in
the title of these sections
9. Morningstar ratings box
• Morningstar will be shown when I class has a
minimum of four stars
Morningstar rating box disclosure
• This should appear under all Momingstar
ratings boxes
10. Yield disclosure
• This should appear under all "Yield (%)* charts
11. Fund column should read "Fund net assets"
12. Sector allocation disclosure
• This disclosure appears under "Sector allocation
(%)* section
13. Bank disclosure
• This disclaimer to be placed on first page lower
left corner, in at least 8 pt font, all caps, with
pipes/vertical bar, in bold
• Order is NOT/NO/MAY
• Note: Due to certain intermediary business
requirements (e.g., banks branches, etc.)